IntroductionUsers often face challenges in formulating effective queries for retrieval tasks, and this issue persists despite several studies addressing it. To aid in query writing and rewriting, the system automatically refines user queries, thereby enhancing retrieval effectiveness. One is interactive retrieval, where users engage with the system to refine their queries, ensuring proper representation. Furthermore, embeddings-based retrieval becomes possible with the aid of learned representations.Generative AI retrieval is an innovative disruption in information retrieval, leveraging large language models (LLMs) to create a ranked list of document identifiers for a given query. It enhances the retrieval process efficiency by replacing the large external index with complex parameters. These frameworks detect the relationship between queries and document identifiers, which have many inherent issues in finding the relevance between queries and documents. Several improved models have been proposed to address this issue and ensure high precision in results. [1,2,3] In resource-limited edge environments, the RAG model is known to reduce LLM hallucinations and integrate external knowledge into LLMs without requiring fine-tuning; however, its retrieval process can introduce significant latency. [4,5,6] Among the many inclusive features and characteristics, the decisive component in RAGs remains unexplored.Enhanced large language models utilise a modular hybrid retrieval and fine-tuned generation approach for adaptive and personalised applications across a wide range of domains. Enhanced with real-time, engaging, context-based learning content, it increases engagement and scalability, thereby reducing the workload of educators. It accounts for issues of accuracy, multimodality, and ethics, which is a significant change in AI education [7,8,9]. Standard RAGsRAGs use external knowledge for query reformulation and enhancement. Typically, RAG systems follow a fixed retrieve-then-generate workflow and rely on in-context knowledge integration. This approach, however, is inefficient for complex tasks that require the integration of multiple chains of reasoning for flexible information retrieval and deeper integration of external knowledge. The two rapidly expanding areas of research include the models of Dynamic RAG and Parametric RAG. Dynamic RAG investigates how LLMs can determine during generation what and when to fetch, allowing them to adjust in real-time to changing information needs. Gao, et al. [23] identified three paradigms of RAG, namely, the Naive RAG, Advanced RAG, and Modular RAG. On the other hand, Parametric RAG aims to refine how retrieved knowledge is integrated, shifting from input-level to parameter-level knowledge injection for enhanced efficiency and effectiveness. [8] The objective of RAG is to enhance the understanding and generative capabilities of vision models by combining internal model knowledge with reliable external knowledge sources, rather than relying solely on internal model knowledge. [14] In the early stages of RAG production, standard models emerged, which were later found to possess inherent limitations, including the excessive use of computing resources and time, as well as unwarranted reliance on external knowledge for common queries. When queries are effective, the standard models unnecessarily modify them, which may lead to improper concept representation in queries. Moreover, these standard models fail to reflect the domain-specific query requirements.While studies indicate an improvement in LLM reasoning through RAG augmented with Knowledge Graphs, the deployment of said solution faces challenges due to ever-changing user demands and environments. To address the stated issues, Tang et al proposed a RAG framework modified through the use of Multi-objective Multi-Armed Bandit techniques that integrate various retrieval methods. Such a framework can evolve and maintain balance between performance, and responsiveness in non-stationary contexts. [9] Adaptive and Enhanced RAG modelsThe Adaptive RAG (Retrieval-augmented generation) is an advanced version of all types of RAG systems, wherein the system disruptively decides when and how much information needs to be retrieved based on the query from the context or the confidence level of the internal model, rather than resorting to the usual static retrieval approach for every single query.In essence, the underlying philosophy is to make retrieval intelligent and aware of context so that it can be more efficient in providing the information, precise in delivering relevant information, and tuned to precisely what is needed for each generation task or shortage.To understand the adaptive and enhanced RAG models, we generate a workflow with proper descriptions. Illustration of how Enhanced and Adaptive RAG Models WorkIneffective queries in Information Retrieval are characterised by too broad expressions, ambiguity, lack of context, vagueness, lack of specificity, poor precision, and unclear intent. Conclusions and Future DirectionsThe enhanced and adaptive RAG models offer promising approaches to learn retrieval as a strategy with the assistance of reinforcement learning. In the adaptive models, the additional/bespoke modifications follow the feedback from user interactions. The Multi-modal adaptation, including the option to pull images or tables, is being investigated, which may yield an interesting outcome. For the agentic workflows, RAG serves as one of the several tools. Once these models attain maturity, the research on RAG has the potential to evolve into domain-specific models, where specific fields, such as medicine and business, have unique requirements.Rather than focusing on what is to be retrieved, when, and how much, retrieval-augmented generation serves a greater purpose and leveraging adaptable retrieval mechanisms to function effectively in specific contexts. Such an approach is pivotal to intelligent and responsive knowledge-augmented generation, marking the shift away from strict input-output pipelines. It is a critical piece in constructing dependable, scalable, and userfriendly applications built on LLM.Figure 1 .1Figure 1. Illustration of the workflow of the Adaptive RAG model Journal of Digital Information Management Volume 23 Number 3 September 2025