Towards Proactive Information Retrieval in Noisy
Text with Wikipedia Concepts
Tabish Ahmed, Sahan Bulathwela
Centre for Artificial Intelligence, University College London, UK.
Abstract
Extracting useful information from the user history to clearly understand informational needs is a crucial
feature of a proactive information retrieval system. Regarding understanding information and relevance,
Wikipedia can provide the background knowledge that an intelligent system needs. This work explores
how exploiting the context of a query using Wikipedia concepts can improve proactive information
retrieval on noisy text. We formulate two models that use entity linking to associate Wikipedia topics
with the relevance model. Our experiments around a podcast segment retrieval task demonstrate that
there is a clear signal of relevance in Wikipedia concepts while a ranking model can improve precision
by incorporating them. We also find Wikifying the background context of a query can help disambiguate
the meaning of the query, further helping proactive information retrieval.
1. Introduction
The informational needs of people are highly contextual and can depend on many different
factors such as their current knowledge state, interests and goals [1, 2, 3]. However, an effective
information retrieval companion should minimise the human effort required in i) expressing a
human information need and ii) navigating a lengthy result set. Using topical representations of
the user history (e.g. [4]) can immensely help formulating zero shot queries and refining short
user queries that enable proactive information retrieval (IR). While the world has digital textual
information in abundance, it can often be noisy (e.g. extracted through Automatic Speech
Recognition (ASR), PDF text extraction etc.), leading to state-of-the-art neural models being
highly sensitive to the noise producing sub-optimal results [5]. This demands denoising steps
to refine both query and document representation.
In this paper, we argue that Wikipedia, an openly available encyclopedia, can be a humanly
intuitive knowledge base [6] that has the potential to provide the world view many noisy
information Retrieval systems need. In the midst of noisy text, we point out that it can help
refine user queries (both explicit and implicit) while compiling large result sets into structured
narratives that human users can navigate with optimal effort. We use a dataset with noisy
text where the query description is used as a proxy of the user’s context used in a proactive
information retrieval system. We demonstrate that positive results can be obtained in comparison
to relevant baselines when ranking documents.
PASIR’22: First Workshop on Proactive and Agent-Supported Information Retrieval at CIKM 2022, October 21, 2022,
Atlanta, GA
" tabish.ahmed.21@ucl.ac.uk (T. Ahmed)
© 2022 Copyright for this paper by its authors. Use permitted under Creative Commons License Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0).
CEUR
Workshop
Proceedings
http://ceur-ws.org
ISSN 1613-0073
CEUR Workshop Proceedings (CEUR-WS.org)
arXiv:2210.09877v1  [cs.IR]  18 Oct 2022

2. Related Work
Retrieving relevant documents to a personal information need involves mining textual features
that can be used to match them to user queries. While previous works have explored Wikipedia-
based concept modelling for query expansion [7, 8] exclusively, our work deviates from these
works as we focus on i) simultaneously adding Wiki features to the documents, ii) ranking
documents with noisy texts and iii) using the query description (proxy for context extracted
from user history) for query disambiguation. Latest neural ranking models dominate the state-
of-the-art in IR albeit neural models struggle in the presence of noise in text [5] making much
simpler, computationally efficient IR models such as BM25, DPH and PL2 much more suitable
for noisy data [9]. Prior evidence has demonstrated the success of simpler models such as
BM25 with the exception of failure on long documents [10]. However, more sophisticated
probabilistic models such as DPH [11], motivated by the Divergence from Randomness (DFR)
framework based on a hypergeometric distribution and Popper normalisation instead of Laplace
normalization, have outperformed the BM25 model when it comes to noisy text [9].
This emerging need for retrieving from noisy-text has led to recent competitions such as the
podcast segment retrieval challenge [12] that has paved way to improving the state-of-the-art.
This competition is relevant to our work as we also tackle proactive IR in noisy text. While the
best performing model within the competition uses a neural approach, it uses token embeddings
rather than document embeddings [13]. The leading model uses a re-ranking model trained
on an orthogonal dataset adding to computational costs significantly. The next best, Dublin
City University model (DCU) uses a variety of features ranging from text, WordNet based
synonyms and entities for expanding the query [14]. As the DCU model uses automatically
extracted entities (via Named Entity Recognition) to expand the query, we consider this work
as the most relevant model to our proposal. But, we also annotate the segments with Wikipedia
concepts/entities further differentiating our work from theirs. User queries, inherently are short,
averaging two to three key words in general [15]. Exploiting auxiliary information available
to recover the context of the search is essential in such scenarios. In recent competitions such
as the podcast segment retrieval challenge, the queries used were accompanied by a small
description that provided the contextual information about the query itself. It was evidenced
that the leading models in this challenge had to use the description to extract features and
sometimes use the identified keywords to make queries to external search engines to further
expand the queries [9]. However, in a real world system, such information is not available.
Hence a proactive IR system has to rely on the user interactions from the past to build the
context [16]. In this work, we use the query context as a proxy representation extracted by a
proactive IR system.
Proactive information retrieval is a field in IR that gained a lot of attention recently. Supporting
user information queries with minimal/zero effort will enable users to use IR systems more
effectively. However, a key part of facilitating information retrieval tasks proactively is building
systems that can capture the relevant signal from the user that indicate the informational needs
of them. Prior works in this domain have identified several ways to harvest user intent. The
simplest approach in this direction is to explicitly ask questions [17] or use the demographic
information of the user [18] to profile them. Rather than explicitly disrupting the user experience,
many works harvest implicit user actions such as clicks, impressions and previous searches

[19, 18]. Especially in the social media domain, the interactions of users are used to create
concept-based models [20] that can be used to infer user preferences and create zero effort queries
for new content. The extracted preference features are usually used to expand information
queries [8, 7], synthesise zero-effort queries [20] or personalise search results [21]. In this
work, we argue in support of using concept-based user models as a form of zero-effort query
for informational recommendation and learning scenarios, especially in the presence of noisy
document representations.
2.1. Concept-based User Modelling and Wikipedia
In the field of document retrieval and personalisation, keyword extraction is a heavily used form
of identifying concepts from textual documents. When working with short text such as social
media posts, the common method is to use the words in the posts as words and build a user profile
over these words [22]. While this approach provides fine grained features, the feature space can
be too vast and pose challenges in increasing recall. To address this issue, other systems use
topic detection using unsupervised learning approaches such as LDA [23]. Such unsupervised
techniques are complex to tune and are not guaranteed to give humanly intuitive topics. While
expert annotation (e.g. in education [24]) has been one of the approaches to obtain humanly
intuitive, representative topics from textual content, this approach is not scalable. Wikification,
a more recent approach, looks promising towards automatically extracting explainable concepts
from text. Wikification identifies Wikipedia concepts present in a document by connecting
natural text to Wikipedia articles via entity linking [25]. In this work, we argue for the usefulness
of Wikification in creating precise, humanly intuitive concept representations at scale. Our
experiments also demonstrate how Wikipedia concepts can be used to i) disambiguate query
keyword and ii) at the absence of them, create entity features that can find relevant documents
for users proactively.
3. Wikipedia to Support Proactive Search-based Systems
Through this work, we aim to explore how the knowledge contained in Wikipedia can be
utilised to better a proactive search-based system. In order to tread towards this direction, we
aim to answer multiple research questions in this work as a promising step. We hypothesise that
associating Wikipedia concepts to a natural language based IR system can improve a proactive
IR system by i) bettering disambiguation of the meaning of user queries, ii) by exploiting
the semantic meaning of document words while being less sensitive to noisy words in the
document transcripts and iii) by creating opportunities for the system to understand the learner
interactions more meaningfully.
RQ1 Do Wikipedia concepts carry a signal that indicates relevance of documents to queries?
RQ2 Can Wikipedia annotations improve noisy information retrieval?
Through this work, we conduct a few preliminary experiments to validate these research
questions. We choose the segment retrieval task from the Podcast Track at TREC 2020 [12]

for these experiments as ”search” is a key component of proactive information retrieval. We
use this task specifically as the query description is provided as part of the query, providing
the context of the query. In many proactive IR systems, the query context is mined using the
user interaction history. In this case, the description can be treated as a context representation
mined from the users’ prior interactions.
3.1. Information Retrieval Models
We restrict our model choices to a probabilistic retrieval method BM25 and a hypergeometric
weighing model DPH. The reasons for restricting to probabilistic models are i) its superior
performance in noisy IR [9], ii) the simplicity to introducing Wikipedia concept features, iii)
the data and computational efficiency in training models and iv) the practical feasibility to
real world systems. The models we utilise in this these experiments use the query 𝑞, query
description 𝑑and the segment 𝑠.
3.1.1. Baseline Models
We use BM25 and DPH models as probabilistic baseline models for this work. These two models
use the textual tokens of the query 𝑞and the segment 𝑠to compute the relevance score 𝑟𝑒𝑙as
per equation 1 where txt identifies the text token features..
𝑟𝑒𝑙(𝑞, 𝑠) = 𝑓(𝑞txt, 𝑠txt)
(1)
As described in section 2, we implement and test the DCU run 2 model [14] (referred to as
DCU model hereafter) that expands the query with entities extracted from the description as per
equation 2 that expands equation 1. The entities are extracted using Named Entity Recognition
(NER).
𝑟𝑒𝑙(𝑞, 𝑑, 𝑠) = 𝑓(𝑞txt+𝑑ent, 𝑠txt)
(2)
where ent represents the entities extracted from the query description 𝑑.
3.2. Proposed Models
The proposed models in this work uses Wikipedia concepts to enrich the representations used
in the IR model. We hypothesise that adding Wikipedia concepts can improve precision of the
model as exact entities can be matched between the query + context and the segments. We
propose two models that use Wikipedia topics both in query and segment expansion.
Wiki_rel
, This model expands the query and the document by adding the Wikipedia concepts
extracted using both the query 𝑞and the query description 𝑑as per equation 4. This model
replaces the entities in the DCU model by Wikipedia concepts.
𝑟𝑒𝑙(𝑞, 𝑑, 𝑠) = 𝑓(𝑞txt+ 𝑞wiki+ 𝑑wiki, 𝑠txt+ 𝑠wiki)
(3)
where ·wiki represents the concepts extracted from the query 𝑞, description 𝑑and segment 𝑠.

Ent_Wiki_rel
, This model expands the DCU model by enriching the query, description and
the segment with Wikipedia concepts. This formulation is presented in equation 4.
𝑟𝑒𝑙(𝑞, 𝑑, 𝑠) = 𝑓(𝑞txt+𝑑ent+ 𝑞wiki+ 𝑑wiki, 𝑠txt+ 𝑠wiki)
(4)
The two proposed models help us validate RQ2 by i) Wiki_rel model validating if replacing
named-entities with Wikipedia features improves the ranking models and ii) Wiki_Ent_rel
model validating if adding Wikipedia features improves the model.
3.3. Data
As per section 3, we use the Podcast segment retrieval task to demonstrate usefulness of
Wikipedia features in proactive information retrieval. The Spotify podcast Dataset contains
approx 100,000 transcripts from around 60,000 hours of audio data culminating in the largest
corpus of transcribed speech data. The episodes in the dataset were randomly sampled from
105,360 English podcast episodes published between January 1, 2019 to March 1, 2020 on Spotify
with 10% of the podcasts from professional creators with high production values and the other
90% coming from amateurs [26]. The data is also provided with training and testing topics
(queries) along with human relevance judgements. There are 8 topics in the training dataset
and another 50 topics in the test set.
To keep the computational costs low, we run the experiments outlined in section 3.4 exclu-
sively using the training data in the podcast dataset. We first transform the dataset into two
minute overlapping segments as described in [9]. Then, we take all the relevant segments as
positive documents for the different queries. As there is a substantial number of segments that
are irrelevant (as the whole dataset contains 3.5 Mn segments), we down sample this data and
get a negative segment set of ≈14000 segments that are not relevant to any of the labelled
queries. This set of positive and negative segments make up the smaller scale dataset that we
use in our empirical experiments. We refer to this dataset as Podcast Small dataset. We use
the Wikifier [25] to associate Wikipedia concepts to both the queries (query + description) and
the podcast segments as the models in section 3.1 require.
3.4. Experiments
The empirical experiments we run in this work aim to answer RQ 1 and 2. We use the Podcast
Small dataset for these experiments. In a proactive information retrieval setting, the user queries
are inferred from users’ historical interactions. We treat the query description provided in the
dataset in the place of the features extracted from the user history. We hypothesise that the
query description, can be used in two ways, i) as the user context that can be used in a zero
effort query to make up the context and rank relevant documents from the corpus and/or ii)
as a mean to disambiguate the true meaning of a short query provided by the user without
prompting the user to provide further clarifications.
To answer RQ1, we aim to see if there is a significant alignment between the Wikipedia
concepts present in the query and a relevant document in contrast to a non-relevant document.
To measure this quantitatively, we measure the Jaccard similarity coefficient 𝜌between the
query and the document using the sets of Wikipedia concepts. Then, for each query, we take

the sets of values 𝜌rel and 𝜌non rel and compare the difference of medians using a one-tailed
Mann–Whitney U test (𝐻𝑎𝑙𝑡. : 𝜌rel > 𝜌non rel).
To answer RQ2, we take the annotated Wikipedia concepts of the query and the podcast
segments as additional features. Then we develop a new set of information retrieval algorithms
outlined in section 3.1 to account for the alignment of Wikipedia concepts present. Then
we use the same Podcast Small dataset to evaluate if the ranking of relevant documents is
different between the baselines and the proposed models. To validate how Wikifying the context
can be used to disambiguate a query, we ran Wikification on each query using i) the query
words exclusively and ii) the query words + the description words, to observe if more precise
identification of Wikipedia concepts is carried out.
In order to run the evaluation experiments needed for RQ2, we utilise Python Terrier
library [27]. The text processing and NER enrichment needed for the DCU model is done using
the Spacy library. The Wikipedia annotations are sourced using the Wikifier service [25].
3.4.1. Evaluation
To evaluate if the Jaccard similarity coefficients in relation to RQ1 are significantly different,
we use the test statistic of the hypothesis test. We present the performance of the ranking
models related to validating RQ2 using NDCG, NDCG@30 and Precision@10 as these are the
same evaluation metrics used in prior work [9]. NDCG uses graded relevance instead of binary
relevance/non-relevance to focus on highly relevant documents, implying that retrieving a
highly relevant document is much more important than retrieving a less important document.
Whereas precision measures the number of relevant documents retrieved over the total relevant
documents. Similar to the prior work, we calculate NDCG for the entire set of relevant segments
available and up-till rank 30. Precision is computed by using a cut-off of top-10 ranked segments.
4. Experimental Results
The results of the experiments are reported in this section. Figure 1 shows the difference of
medians of Jaccard similarity coefficients, while Table 1 summarises the results obtained from
the hypothesis test conducted to verify RQ1. Table 2 outlines the ranking performance obtained
in the experiments run in order to verify RQ2.
4.1. Query Keyword Disambiguation using the Context
We hyptothesise that the context gathered by the user can also be used to disambiguate the
meaning of keywords in a search query. To test this, we take 7 queries from the training dataset
that belongs to categories topical and known item (”story about riding a bird” is ignored as it is a
query that belongs to the refinding category). We enrich these queries using Wikification in two
settings, i) query only vs. ii) query + description, to investigate if the identified Wiki concepts are
different. Table 3 reports how the salient entities in the query keywords are detected differently
in the two settings.

Figure 1: Jaccard similarity distribution of relevant vs. non-relevant segments for each query in the
podcast dataset.
Table 1
The difference of medians test for each query reported with the statistical significance.
Number of Documents
Median Jaccard Similarity
MannWhitney U test
Query ID
Relevant
Non-Relevant
Relevant
Non-Relevant
Difference
Test Statistic
p value
1
70
14109
0.027
0.007
0.020
25680
1.03E-49
2
63
14116
0.023
0.011
0.012
47466
8.84E-46
3
78
14101
0.043
0.023
0.019
264688
1.22E-16
4
78
14101
0.034
0.027
0.007
393033
1.41E-06
5
80
14099
0.039
0.029
0.010
455015
1.42E-03
6
37
14142
0.027
0.010
0.017
35748
8.37E-48
7
77
14102
0.016
0.011
0.005
56322
2.80E-44
8
80
14099
0.032
0.023
0.010
271961
6.31E-16
5. Discussion
The results obtained in the preliminary experiments conducted are very promising. Majority of
the results suggest that Wikipedia concepts can help the IR system.
5.1. The Usefulness of Wikipedia Features (RQ1)
Figure 1 clearly shows that the Jaccard similarity coefficient between the relevant segments 𝜌rel
and the non-relevant documents 𝜌non rel are different from each other. It is even evident that
the confidence intervals don’t even overlap in some of the queries in the training data. The test
statistics presented in table 1 further confirms this observation. In a one-tailed hypothesis test,
all the queries demonstrate statistically significant differences of medians where the median
Jaccard similarity of the Wikipedia concepts of the relevant segments and the query is greater
than that of the non-relevant segments. These results enable us to conclude that the the overlap
of Wikipedia concepts between queries and relevant documents is an influential signal that can
be incorporated in relevance computation. The results indicate that there is promise in using

Table 2
Ranking performance of the models. The best performance in bold and the second best in italic face.
Features
Metrics
Model
Query
NER
Wiki
NDCG
NDCG at 30
Precision at 10
Text
Entities
Concepts
Baselines
DPH
√
×
×
0.48
0.30
0.32
BM25
√
×
×
0.48
0.28
0.31
DCU
√
√
×
0.51
0.32
0.30
New Proposals
Wiki_rel
√
×
√
0.49
0.29
0.31
Ent_Wiki_rel
√
√
√
0.51
0.30
0.36
Table 3
The Quality of Query Word Disambiguation/Refinement when using the query exclusively vs. when
using the description.
Query
Query Only
Query + Description
coronavirus spread
wiki/Coronavirus
wiki/Novel_coronavirus
greta thunberg cross atlantic
-
wiki/Greta_Thunberg
black hole image
wiki/Black_hole
wiki/Black_hole
daniel ek interview
-
wiki/Daniel_Ek
michelle obama becoming
-
wiki/Michelle_Obama
wiki/Becoming_(philosophy)
wiki/Becoming_(book)
anna delvey
wiki/Indian_anna
wiki/Anna_Sorokin
facebook stock prediction
wiki/Facebook
wiki/Facebook
wiki/Stock
wiki/Stock
Wikipedia concepts as a feature in IR systems where noise is present.
5.2. Utility of Wikification in Information Retrieval (RQ2)
The usefulness of Wikipedia concepts in relevance prediction is validated in the results presented
in table 2. The results in the table show that replacing the NER-based entities with Wikipedia
concepts is not as fruitful as augmenting them while the entities are retained. It is observed that
both the proposed models outperform the entity based DCU model in precision at 10. This aligns
with the our understanding of the effect of Wikipedia concepts. NER, while detecting specific
persons, organisations and other entities in the text, only adds the textual representations of
these entities to the query to expand it. Therefore, the newly added queries are not capable
of entity disambiguation (when the same term occurs in a segment meaning something else.
e.g. Apple, the fruit vs. the company) and coreference resolution (when a different textual
form is used to mean the same entity. e.g. United Nations vs. UN). On the contrary, enriching
both the query and the document with Wikipedia entities enable accounting for both of these
effects, making the relevance calculation more precise. The Ent_Wiki_rel model that contains
both the NER-based entities and Wikipedia concepts, manages to improve the precision at 10
while retaining the NDCG performance. This shows that keeping the entities in the query is

Figure 2: (i) X5Learn [28] and IFacetSum [29] showing that using Wikipedia concepts to represent
documents can support proactive information retrieval by summarising the key concepts/entities in the
result collection, helping the user to make more informed decisions on their next steps.
important to retain the NDCG gains found in the DCU model.
In this scenario, we use the Wikipedia concepts and entities extracted from the description to
improve the search ranking. While we treat the description in this scenario as a representation
extracted from the user history, many concept-based user models described in section 2 support
extracting features such as keywords [21] and Wikipedia concepts [1] from content.
Query Keyword Disambiguation
The results in table 3 also give us insights into the po-
tential of using query context for keyword disambiguation. It is seen that in multiple queries,
certain concepts were not even detected when the query was used exclusively for Wikificaiton
(e.g. Greta Thunberg, Michelle Obama etc.). However, with the presence of context (that can be
extracted from historic encounter of concepts of a user [4]), the algorithm managed to identify
these concepts in the query increasing recall. Table 3 also shows instances where the precision
of identification is improved in the presence of the context. The more precise Novel Coronavirus
was detected in the first query while the system understood that the query was about Michelle
Obama’s book, Becoming in the fifth query, not the philosophical concept. These results show
how many scenarios where short query keywords can be clarified automatically by referring to
the context rather than needlessly prompting the human user.
5.3. Wikipedia Concepts and the User Experience
The previous section discussed one opportunity of Wikification, automatic query word disam-
biguation. Such features will substantially decrease the number of user prompts in a system
leading to a smoother experience. Wikipedia concepts also bring the advantage of being
grounded in a taxonomy that is intuitive to humans. The human intuitive nature of Wikipedia
concepts allows the system to provide more transparent result sets that the user can navigate
more efficiently. Figure 2 shows two recent systems demonstrating the potential of using
Wikipedia based representations to improve human-in-the-loop information retrieval.
The left system, X5Learn [28] shows how different Wikipedia concepts are related to different
segments of videos. The Jaccard-based relevance can be used to visualise the degree of concept
overlap between the segments and the query indicating relevance (connecting to the hypothesis
of RQ1). Also, using Wikipedia concepts rather than free-form keywords or NER-based entities

allows the system to provide explanations of the concepts users encounter. This can be done
using the knowledge base behind the taxonomy (in this case, Wikipedia as per figure 2 (left))
Many users seeking information do not fully understand the knowledge landscape they navigate
and can use learning opportunities to get more familiar with the topics.
IFacetSum, a multi-faceted mix-initiative interface shown in figure 2(right) is an example of
how the result sets can be summarised using the entities and concepts in the document. As
shown in the demonstration, the detected entities and concepts allow the user to understand
the contents of the relevant documents quickly. Their user study also found that the users
didn’t utilise the statements and summaries as much as they used the concepts and entities
[29]. However, this system lacks the capabilities of explaining the topics as it is not backed by a
knowledge base pointing to the advantages of using a taxonomy that has auxiliary information
that can be used. In a nutshell, many recent visualisation approaches use concepts to represent
documents. Having Wikipedia as a topic taxonomy enables these systems to make use of the
advancements of Wikification that is advancing rapidly at present. It also allows taking use of
other information in Wikipedia (e.g. semantic relatedness between topics, hierarchy of concepts
etc.) to model the concepts in a much more sophisticated manner. This in turn, helps bridging
the system seamlessly to the end user, creating cleaner interaction footprints that transform
into the input for proactive search.
6. Conclusion
Through this work, we explore the potential of using Wikipedia concepts to drive the proactive
search experience of an IR system working on noisy documents. We explored the usefulness
of Wikipedia concepts focusing on 2 research questions. We treated the query description in
a podcast segment retrieval task dataset as the user context in a proactive IR system and ran
a series of experiments. Our first experiment showed that the overlap of Wikipedia concepts
between the relevant segments and the query are significantly larger than with the non-relevant
segments. A subsequent experiment that added Wikipedia concept features to the search query
and the document showed that the relevance model that uses Wikipedia concepts can improve
precision of the ranking model while retaining the NDCG score in comparison to a counterpart
that uses entities instead of Wikipedia concepts. A deeper analysis on the Wikification of the
queries also showed that the meaning of the query keywords can be enhanced by using the
query context. We also demonstrated using two recent works on how Wikipedia taxonomy can
help an IR system to better connect with the end user and enable them to carry out structured
IR tasks by proactively helping them navigate the information in the result sets. It is seen that
having Wikipedia concepts allows presenting the result set in a humanly intuitive form that
encourages the user to efficiently refine their query in the subsequent steps. All the observations
from the analysed systems indicate that Wikipedia concepts have a key role to play in creating
proactive information retrieval systems that can facilitate a higher degree human-in-the-loop
operation. In the future work, we aim to use more sophisticated representations of Wikipedia
concepts and advanced relevance models to run large scale experiments on the full podcast
dataset with 3.5 Mn segments. Understanding how to use Wikipedia concepts effectively (e.g.
by ranking them) is a top priority.

Acknowledgments
This research was partially conducted as part of the X5GON project funded from the EU’s
Horizon 2020 research programme grant No 761758. This work is also supported by the European
Commission-funded project “Humane AI: Toward AI Systems That Augment and Empower
Humans by Understanding Us, our Society and the World Around Us” (grant 820437), EU
Erasmus+ project ”European Network for Catalysing Open Resources in Education” (project ref:
621586-EPP-1-2020-1-NO-EPPKA2-KA), and the AT2030 Programme. The AT2030 programme
is funded by aid from the UK government and led by the Global Disability Innovation Hub.
References
[1] S. Bulathwela, M. Pérez-Ortiz, E. Yilmaz, J. Shawe-Taylor, Towards an integrative educa-
tional recommender for lifelong learners, in: AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,
AAAI 20, 2020.
[2] W. Jiang, Z. A. Pardos, Q. Wei, Goal-based course recommendation, in: Proceedings of
International Conference on Learning Analytics & Knowledge, 2019.
[3] S. Bulathwela, M. Pérez-Ortiz, E. Yilmaz, J. Shawe-Taylor, Power to the learner: To-
wards human-intuitive and integrative recommendations with open educational resources,
Sustainability 14 (2022) 11682.
[4] S. Bulathwela, M. Pérez-Ortiz, E. Yilmaz, J. Shawe-Taylor, Truelearn: A family of bayesian
algorithms to match lifelong learners to open educational resources, in: AAAI Conference
on Artificial Intelligence, AAAI 20, 2020.
[5] G. Sidiropoulos, S. Vakulenko, E. Kanoulas, On the impact of speech recognition errors in
passage retrieval for spoken question answering, arXiv preprint arXiv:2209.12944 (2022).
[6] S. Bulathwela, M. Pérez-Ortiz, C. Halloway, J. Shawe-Taylor, Could ai democratise edu-
cation? socio-technical imaginaries of an edtech revolution, in: In Proc. of the NeurIPS
Workshop on Machine Learning for the Developing World (ML4D), 2021.
[7] H. K. Azad, A. Deepak, A new approach for query expansion using wikipedia and wordnet,
Information sciences 492 (2019) 147–163.
[8] J. A. Nasir, I. Varlamis, S. Ishfaq, A knowledge-based semantic framework for query
expansion, Information processing & management 56 (2019) 1605–1617.
[9] R. Jones, B. Carterette, A. Clifton, M. Eskevich, G. J. Jones, J. Karlgren, A. Pappu, S. Reddy,
Y. Yu, Trec 2020 podcasts track overview, arXiv preprint arXiv:2103.15953 (2021).
[10] Y. Lv, C. Zhai, When documents are very long, bm25 fails!, in: Proceedings of the
34th international ACM SIGIR conference on Research and development in Information
Retrieval, 2011, pp. 1103–1104.
[11] G. Amati, Frequentist and bayesian approach to information retrieval, in: European
Conference on Information Retrieval, Springer, 2006, pp. 13–24.
[12] Y. Yu, J. Karlgren, H. Bonab, A. Clifton, M. I. Tanveer, R. Jones, Spotify at the trec 2020
podcasts track: Segment retrieval, in: Proceedings of the Twenty-Ninth Text REtrieval
Conference (TREC 2020), 2020.

[13] P. Galušcáková, S. Nair, D. W. Oard, Combine and re-rank: The university of maryland at
the trec 2020 podcasts track (2020).
[14] Y. Moriya, G. J. Jones, Dcu-adapt at the trec 2020 podcasts track., in: TREC, 2020.
[15] A. Arampatzis, J. Kamps, A study of query length, in: Proceedings of the 31st annual
international ACM SIGIR conference on Research and development in information retrieval,
2008, pp. 811–812.
[16] P. Sen, Proactive information retrieval, Ph.D. thesis, Dublin City University, 2021.
[17] G. H. Torbati, A. Yates, G. Weikum, Personalized entity search by sparse and scrutable
user profiles, in: Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Human Information Interaction
and Retrieval, 2020, pp. 427–431.
[18] L. Yang, Q. Guo, Y. Song, S. Meng, M. Shokouhi, K. McDonald, W. B. Croft, Modeling
user interests for zero-query ranking, in: European Conference on Information Retrieval,
Springer, 2016, pp. 171–184.
[19] S. Bulathwela, M. Perez-Ortiz, E. Novak, E. Yilmaz, J. Shawe-Taylor, Peek: A large dataset
of learner engagement with educational videos, in: Proc. of RecSys Workshop on Online
Recommender Systems and User Modeling (ORSUM’21), 2021. URL: https://arxiv.org/abs/
2109.03154.
[20] F. Zarrinkalam, S. Faralli, G. Piao, E. Bagheri, Extracting, mining and predicting users’
interests from social media (2020).
[21] R. Syed, K. Collins-Thompson, Retrieval algorithms optimized for human learning, in:
Proc. of Int. Conf. on Research and Development in Information Retrieval (SIGIR), 2017.
[22] G. Piao, J. G. Breslin, Analyzing mooc entries of professionals on linkedin for user modeling
and personalized mooc recommendations, in: Proceedings of the 2016 Conference on User
Modeling Adaptation and Personalization, UMAP ’16, 2016.
[23] F. Zarrinkalam, H. Fani, E. Bagheri, M. Kahani, Predicting users’ future interests on twitter,
in: European Conference on Information Retrieval, Springer, 2017, pp. 464–476.
[24] A. T. Corbett, J. R. Anderson, Knowledge tracing: Modeling the acquisition of procedural
knowledge, User Modeling and User-Adapted Interaction 4 (1994).
[25] J. Brank, G. Leban, M. Grobelnik, Annotating documents with relevant wikipedia concepts,
in: Proc. of Slovenian KDD Conf. on Data Mining and Data Warehouses (SiKDD), 2017.
[26] A. Clifton, A. Pappu, S. Reddy, Y. Yu, J. Karlgren, B. Carterette, R. Jones, The spotify
podcast dataset, arXiv preprint arXiv:2004.04270 (2020).
[27] C. Macdonald, N. Tonellotto, Declarative experimentation in information retrieval using
PyTerrier, in: Proceedings of the 2020 ACM SIGIR on International Conference on Theory
of Information Retrieval, ACM, 2020. doi:10.1145/3409256.3409829.
[28] S. Bulathwela, S. Kreitmayer, M. Pérez-Ortiz, What’s in it for me? augmenting rec-
ommended learning resources with navigable annotations, in: Proceedings of the 25th
International Conference on Intelligent User Interfaces Companion, IUI 20, 2020.
[29] E. Hirsch, A. Eirew, O. Shapira, A. Caciularu, A. Cattan, O. Ernst, R. Pasunuru, H. Ronen,
M. Bansal, I. Dagan, iFacetSum: Coreference-based interactive faceted summarization for
multi-document exploration, in: Proceedings of the 2021 Conference on Empirical Methods
in Natural Language Processing: System Demonstrations, Association for Computational
Linguistics, Online and Punta Cana, Dominican Republic, 2021, pp. 283–297. URL: https:
//aclanthology.org/2021.emnlp-demo.33. doi:10.18653/v1/2021.emnlp-demo.33.