1283 
Copyright © Authors 
IT in Industry, Vol. 9, No.1, 2021 
Published Online 18-Mar-2021 
ISSN (Print): 2204-0595 
ISSN (Online): 2203-1731 
CLOUD BASED MULTI-LANGUAGE INDEXING USING 
CROSS LINGUAL INFORMATION RETRIEVAL 
APPROACHES
 
 
Chayapathi A R1, G Sunil Kumar2, Manjunath Swamy B E3, Thriveni J4, and Venugopal K R5 
1Computer Science Department, Visvesvaraya Technological University, Vijaya Vittala Institute of Technology Bengaluru, 
Karnataka, Indi, archayapathi@gmail.com 
2Computer Science Department,  Banglore University, UVCE Bengaluru, Karnataka, India, gsuneel.k@gmail.com 
3 Computer Science Department, Don Bosco Institute of Technology, Bengaluru, Karnataka, manjube24@gmail.com 
4Computer Science Department, Banglore University, UVCE Bengaluru, Karnataka, India,  
5 Computer Science Department, Banglore University, UVCE Bengaluru, Karnataka, India,,. 
 
 
Abstract: The exponential growth of data sizes created by 
digital media (video/audio/images), physicalsimulations, 
scientific instruments and web authoring joins the new 
growth of interest in cloud computing. The options for 
distribution and parallelization of information in clouds 
make the retrieval and storage processes very complicated, 
especially when faced with real-time data management. 
The quantity of Web Users getting access to data over 
Internet is expanding step by step. An enormous measure 
of data on Internet is accessible in various languages which 
could be accessed by anyone whenever. The Information 
Retrieval (IR) manages finding valuable data from a huge 
assortment of unorganized, organized and semi-organized 
information. In the present situation, the variety of data 
and language boundaries are the difficult challenges for 
communication and social trade over the world. To tackle 
such obstructions, CLIR, the cross-language information 
retrieval frameworks, are these days in solid interest. The 
Query Expansion (Q.E.) is the way toward adding related 
and important terms to original inquiry to upgrade its 
indexing ability to improve the significance of recovered 
files in CLIR. In this exploration work, Q.E. has been 
investigated for a Hindi-English and Kannada-English 
CLIR in that Hindi and Kannada queries are utilized to 
look through English docs. After the interpretation of 
query, recovered outcomes are positioned making use of 
OkapiBM25 to organize the most important doc at the top 
for expanding the significance of recovered docs using QE. 
We 
proposed 
architecture 
for 
Hindi-English 
and 
Kannada-English CLIR making use of QE. to improve the 
importance of recovered reports. In the primary 
investigation, QE. is performed with and without 
OkapiBM25 ranking. The outcomes show that the 
pertinence 
of 
recovered 
archives 
is 
higher 
with 
OKapiBM25 as contrast with the one without positioning. 
The work docs plainly demonstrate that the presentation 
of Hindi-English and Kannada-English CLIR framework 
can be improved altogether with query development using 
fitting terms located at suitable place and the recovered 
Snippets can incredibly fill in as the continuous test 
collection. 
 
          
Keywords: Information Retrieval, MLIR, CLIR, Cloud, 
Query Expansion, OkapiBM25 
 
1. Introduction 
A high quantity of data on web is accessible in various 
languages which could be accessed by anyone in any place 
and time. The capacity to search and recover data in numerous 
languages is getting progressively significant and challenging 
at present. Thusly, Multilingual and Cross-lingual data 
recovery search indexes have got more research consideration 
and are progressively being utilized to recover data on the 
web. The area of data access has developed to perform many 
modern assignments, for example, the data retrieval, 
multimedia information retrieval, question answering works, 
summarization, and clustering and Web data recovery. 
Information Retrieval attempts to distinguish pertinent docs 
for a data need, communicated as a query. The issues that an 
IR framework should manage incorporate doc indexing, query 
investigation and query assessment. Every one of these issues 
has been the subject of numerous studies in IR. 
In the present culture of IR, the user's or organization's process 
of decision making relies upon the nature of data. The ideal 
accessibility of pertinent and quality info causes the users to 
settle on making suitable decision. The importance and nature 
of data relies upon the user fulfilment or info need. Thus, the 
applicable, modern, clear, complete, and exact data are the 
significant boundaries to pass judgment on the pertinence of 
recovered docs.  
The info on Web is constantly expanding because of the 
enormous utilization of Internet by the people. The internet 

 
 
1284 
Copyright © Authors 
IT in Industry, Vol. 9, No.1, 2021 
Published Online 18-Mar-2021 
ISSN (Print): 2204-0595 
ISSN (Online): 2203-1731 
users share their data by transferring or downloading of data 
through Web with various other people. The General IR 
framework design is illustrated in Fig.1, where the user fires 
an inquiry via operational module to IR framework. The 
retrieval framework returns docs by utilizing indexing module 
that consists of few queries. The reason for indexing module is 
to introduce the positioned documents before user. 
 
Fig.1: Architectureframework for a General IR 
 
The IR can be broadly classified in to four groups as: 
Monolingual IR: This is the most essential and most normal 
type, that like its name uncovers, utilizes just a single language 
for both the query and info recovery. Monolingual Information 
retrieval is a recovery process in that the queries presented be 
the user in a single language to recover info in same language.  
Bi-lingual IR: This encourages the utilization of queries in 
one language to get access of the docs in different language. 
In the event that two languages are included, for instance if the 
doc is written in Kannada and the query is done in English, 
data recovery is supposed to be bilingual IR.  
Multi-Lingual IR: The MLIR encourages the utilization of 
queries in one language to get access to docs in various 
multiple languages. The MLIR gives results that are more 
thorough than those of mono and CLIR. The most complete 
way to deal with multilingual site development is to contain 
copies of the very content in various languages which are 
connected together so the framework could demonstrate the 
user an underlying version and afterward the user can pick an 
alternate interpretation whenever needed. 
Multilingual accessing is a multifaceted and complicated 
topic, grasping specialized, useful and vital issues that have 
been discussed by the community of information experts.  The 
environment of multilingual is a stage that upholds 
concurrence of various languages in a solitary information 
base framework where interaction of data isn't confined by the 
language. A mechanism to improve the user communication 
independent of the domain of the language. The Fig. 2 
demonstrates environment of multilingual interactions where 
different   individuals come from various linguistic networks 
and their thoughts are shared. 
 
Fig. 2: Illustration of Multilingual Environment 
 
Cross-lingual information retrieval: The CLIR is rapidly 
turning into a developed field in the data recovery world. The 
objective is to permit a client to give a query in one language 
and have that inquiry recover docs in another language. The 
thought is that the user needs to give a solitary query against a 
collection of docs which has docs in a multitude of languages. 
A certain assumption which will be that the user comprehends 
results acquired in various languages. CLIR is a retrieving 
process in that the user gives inquiries in a single language to 
recover data in other language. The reasonable methods are 
needed to upgrade the performance related to IR, CLIR and 
MLIR. The CLIR gives a helpful way which can tackle the 
issues of language limits, where users may submit questions 
written in their self-language and docs retrieved in different 
language. For instance, a person is sending queries in source 
languageand gets backthe connected data of target language, 
as appeared in Fig.3. 
 
Fig.3: CLIR System Illustration 
 
Presently, a few Indian government workplaces come up short 
on a robust software for searching through words from the 
multilingual scanned docs. Physically looking through such 
records is monotonous and tedious. Besides, there will be 
countless such docs to be looked for the ideal contents. Hence, 
there is a squeezing requirement for robust programmed 
searching app for multilingual old docs, where there is no 
single 
vigorous 
framework 
existing 
to 
perceive 
the 
complicated Indian contents. The CLIR empowers the users to 
recuperate the docs unique in relation to the language of the 
inquiry. It permits the client to enter their question in one 
language and recapture the set of records in different 

 
 
1285 
Copyright © Authors 
IT in Industry, Vol. 9, No.1, 2021 
Published Online 18-Mar-2021 
ISSN (Print): 2204-0595 
ISSN (Online): 2203-1731 
languages. Where, query's language is unique in relation to the 
language of the report. CLIR framework is a framework 
wherein a client isn't limited to just a single language, it can 
plan inquiry in one language and afterward framework restores 
the records in another language, because in CLIR the query's 
language and docs both could be translated. 
There are different strategies for query translation, document 
translation or both. There are three essential schemes of 
translation are parallel corpora, machine translation (MT) and 
dictionaries. The Query t, translation regularly utilizes either 
corpus-based interpretation or dictionary-based translation. 
The translation of document generally just utilizes MT. The 
Transliteration, Morphological Analyzer, and Word sense 
disambiguation are the significant pieces of machine 
translation.  
MT is one of the components of language processing inside 
Computational Linguistic. The MT strategy interprets either 
the archive or inquiry by utilizing a machine interpretation 
framework. For deciphering text and words starting with one 
language then onto the next, bilingual word reference can be 
utilized. Bilingual word references are utilized in a word 
reference-based methodology. By looking into terms in a 
bilingual word reference, queries are interpreted. A few 
inquiries are likewise deciphered utilizing a few or the entirety 
of the interpreted terms. The Corpus based interpretation 
normally gives much better execution, when contrasted with 
word reference based. The development of parallel corpora is 
muddled and very costly. It tends to be tremendously 
unpredictable to discover parallel corpora for specific 
language or which are sufficiently huge to be useful. Breaking 
down morphology of given content is called as Morphological 
Analyzer, which is a part of software app. It senses or 
produces morphemes of an information word. With the 
expanding accessibility of on-line data, the people presently 
approach a large number of data sources and a great many 
reports. There has been a solid spotlight on extricating 
significant data from on-line gigantic data information base. 
To encourage the access of data according to the particular 
prerequisites of a user has been a most unmistakable part of 
the exploration in IR. 
Lately, the measure of online data from the public authority, 
business, logical, and private areas have risen significantly. It 
is as of now engaged that the majority of the Web pages are 
written in English dialects. In any case, English isn't the local 
language of almost 50% of all Internet clients and the quantity 
of non-English talking clients is developing. In India, the 
greater part of individuals favour Hindi and other regional 
languages for interactions and different purposes, so the 
accessibility of non-English client is high. This spurs an 
interest for research that can build up the connection between 
English, Hindi and regional languages.  
As the Internet is getting mainstream in India, the quantity of 
the docs written in Indian dialects is additionally expanding 
step by step. Numerous news-papers and magazines of the 
Indian dialects are currently accessible on the web. Yet, there 
is no effective searching applications exists for Hindi or some 
other Indian dialects to look through the English reports. The 
upsides of CLIR are not restricted to singular clients of the 
Internet. Accordingly, a framework is needed that support 
clients to find the significant data all the more rapidly and 
successfully crossing language limits. The prime goal of this 
research is to investigate Hindi-English and Kannada-English 
CLIR frameworks. 
Cloud Based Search Engine Strategies:Cloud computing 
includes a pay-per-use strategy for availing the services 
through Internet in a sizeable manner. An important criterion 
for the clouds is to support data intensive applications. The 
distributed and dynamic nature of cloud computing systems 
however makes the process of data management very 
complex, particularly in the case of real-time data 
database/processing upgrading. It is very difficult to know 
how data-intensive applications could obtain adequate 
performance through very high-level interfaces disclosed in 
clouds, like those that manipulate today’s production grid 
infrastructures. In addition to this difficulty, there are many 
other fundamental challenges which needs to be adequately 
addressed by any data management framework implemented 
for clouds. An approach to cloud application virtualization that 
provides additional application and offers higher portability, 
manageability and consistency of data and applications, has 
yet to be thoroughly explored. In this context, the idea of 
universal data access for cloud computing will serve as an 
alternative to the incorporation of database applications, 
whereas using a flexible and fast data access system within the 
cloud can provide a standard access mechanism. The Fig.4 
illustrates the diagrammatical representation of working of 
cloud base search engine. 
 
Fig.4: Working Strategy for Cloud based Search Engine 
 
A web-oriented Cloud Service Search engine means that it 
enables the cloud user to locate the requested data and related 
information in World Wide Web data base. The primarily 
involved Cloud Service Searching strategy is Bing searching 
techniques, MSN search engine, Ask searching, Google’s 

 
 
1286 
Copyright © Authors 
IT in Industry, Vol. 9, No.1, 2021 
Published Online 18-Mar-2021 
ISSN (Print): 2204-0595 
ISSN (Online): 2203-1731 
search engine, Yahoo search engine and so on. The search 
engine for cloud service is a software program that is specially 
designed for searching particular documents. Every document 
must contain specific keyword for searching on to a large data 
base. The search engine can now have a list of such credentials 
or data that signify wherever the keyword is located. 
A strategy of Cloud Service Search is a web interface which is 
built from huge collection of the software program. The cloud 
service searching engine mechanism usually makes use of 
software application automation. In search engine the robot 
otherwise spider travels through the index of the WWW data 
base.The agent followed the different links to the website from 
one page to another page. In order to scan for specific key 
words specified by cloud user as an input requirement, the 
intelligent agent often roams from one website to another 
website.  
Once all the web sites and pages are visited the agent gathered 
some useful data. Here the crawler is known as an agent. Later 
on, this smart agent may create a deplorable catalogue page of 
the WWW, that may help the cloud consumer to understand 
and choose the appropriate cloud service provider from a huge 
list gathered. The provider list is prepared on the basis of 
ranking. The architecture giveinFig.5 illustrates the  Cloud 
based search query analysis. 
 
Fig.5: Cloud based search query analysis 
 
The service discovery mechanism or simply a search engine or 
cloud service search engine. In the system of cloud service 
discovery, the user needs to show the specification and 
requirement of the cloud service provider. The Cloud service 
Search Engine has now begun its work by sending spider 
agent for roaming. The spider agent holds the capability of 
retrieve a huge cloud data and document to the extent possible. 
The crawler agent needs to get the specification in the form of 
an input keyword. The crawler agent may gather large number 
of information that will be kept in some data base. Then comes 
the next software program called as the indexer. The 
documents stored by crawler must be read by the indexer. The 
indexer is then started by creating indices on each and every 
data and document based on gesture available. The various 
kinds of search algorithms can be used for any search 
mechanism. But the required result page for user queries 
should be shown by the algorithm. 
The Intelligent Agent cloud service searching strategy system 
consists of the 
following technical module: 
Spider– This acts as a web browser interface for downloading 
web Pages that provide cloud service. 
Indexer– The Indexer makes analysis of cloud service web 
page downloaded through a program as well as the Cloud 
pages downloaded by the crawler program & spider program. 
Crawler– This is a software program that robotically keeps a 
track of every web link of cloud 
service provider page. 
Database– The database is utilized for storing the processed & 
downloaded web page that provide cloud service.  
Cloud server– The cloud server is in charge of interacting 
with the clients as well as the searching technique tool module. 
Results engine– The result engine is the one that takes the 
searched outcomes from stored data base. 
 
2. Literature Survey 
When using aweakly appeared language to search the site, the 
outcome of the searchisvery few and less important. The aim 
of Information retrieval system isproviding the necessary 
information to user’s questions. However, the information 
needed, in some situations may not be available innative 
language of the user.For instance, when information on 
‘‘MachineLearning” is searched in Hindi language, the result 
tends to be very minimal and/or not significant when 
compared with theoutcomes obtained while searching for same 
informationin English language. The other example is, when 
we search information on ‘‘ruling of Hindi speaking people in 
India”as an English query, the results of the searchmight be 
very fewwhen contrastedwithresults for the similarHindi 
translated request. Hence, the prime objective of MLIR 
(Multilingual Information Retrieval) is to obtain correct 
informationregardless of the language of the query. 
Example,for 
few 
instanceswhich 
require 
Multilingual 
Information 
Retrievalframework, 
the 
user 
of 
the 
informationtries to find all relevant information that is 
available, irrespective of the language, such aspatent lawyers 
searches for patent information, journalists usually look for the 
news and updates of other countries, business analysts wants 
to gather information on foreign business undertaken in 
different countriesand userscheck for documents that contains 
a combination of multiple languages.Normally, majority of the 
previous works of MLIR worked towards improving 
multilingual information retrieval system by improving 
translation.  
The authors in paper [1] showed a study of various methods 
used in translatingdocument and query and differenttechniques 

 
 
1287 
Copyright © Authors 
IT in Industry, Vol. 9, No.1, 2021 
Published Online 18-Mar-2021 
ISSN (Print): 2204-0595 
ISSN (Online): 2203-1731 
of translation like the machine translation, dictionary,or 
parallel corpora to either translate the documents or the query. 
Researchers in [2] also concentrated on Cross lingual 
information 
retrievalissues 
including 
named 
entities 
recognizing, dictionary-based problem, Out-Of-Vocabulary, 
and translation disambiguation. Few othersstudied the 
influence of language onsearch engine by understandinguser 
attitudes and conduct, to infer outcomes for Webpractices and 
standards. The relationbetween domain/topic and availability 
of content across languages is studied in this work. 
There’s been enormous numbers of CLIR and MLIR works in 
whichboth of them usedistinct methodsto enhance the 
efficiency ofMLIR/CLIR system. Few of themfocus on 
translation improvementfor enhance Multilingual Information 
Retrieval system. This type of attention isnot shocking, as the 
primaryfactor for MLIR/CLIRimprovements is the correct 
interpretation of the query, this directly impacts the accuracyof 
theresults obtained; For instance: The researchers in [3][4] and 
[5]. Some researchers off latemake use of n-gram for the 
process ofretrieval and translation. A unified structure for 
MoIR(monolingual) and CLIR based on induction from 
comparable data ofcomplex real-valueword vectors recognized 
as Word Embedding was proposed by researcher in [6]. The 
experts in [7] also showed thateffectiveness of making use of 
n-grams character as indexing units,and theconversion units of 
Cross-Language Information Retrieval systems. In the query 
translation process and the indexing–retrieval process the 
benefits of n-grams was used. 
Experiments are carried out in CLEF collections for 7 
Europeanlanguages by considering English as target language. 
The back-translationtechnique was used forcalculating the 
precision of query translation for Hindi-English CLIR method 
in work described in [8]. They found out that, the back 
translationsignificantly 
increasesthe 
precision 
of 
query 
interpretation ofthreetranslatorsused for the research process 
(i.e. Babylon Microsoftand Google). However, they stated that 
Google wasthe best option for their requirements. The research 
work in [9] used LSA (Latent Semantic Analysis) methodfor 
constructing semantic space by utilizingthe parallel corpus of 
two related languages. The outcomes of Latent Semantic 
Analysisby 
utilizing 
semantic 
space 
and 
without 
mergingdocuments together gainexcellent outcomes than the 
traditional Latent Semantic Analysisapproaches. A new 
probabilistic methodthat makes use of a probability-to-
possibility conversionfor dictionary-based query translation 
was proposed by the researchers in [10]. This method 
overcomesthe probabilistic success and forfew state-of the-art 
CLIR instruments. 
A method for calculating the amount of online content of a 
collection of languages at domain level is implemented in 
works [11]. This calculation is used for constructing a MLIR 
framework 
that 
identifies 
which 
languages 
are 
highlyexpressed on the internet about a particular query 
subject. The system design includes two modules; the offline 
module and the online module. The off-line moduleconstructs 
an index of linguistic diversity for languagesat the topic level 
and, on-line module, on the other handidentifies where the 
suitable language for search is based the index for extracting 
the related documents to user query in that language. 
Multilingualintegrations 
open 
up 
the 
chance 
of 
transmittinginformationthrough 
languages 
and 
constructingcomplicatedsystems for even languages with 
lessquantity ofsupervised resources [12][13].Training a 
multilingual word embedding model is by far the most popular 
approach for learning multilingual embeddings, which is then 
used to obtain representations by structure for files and 
sentences. Typically, these models are trained solely on 
sentence or word aligned corpora and composition models are 
often simple predetermined featuressuch as averages over 
word embeddings [14] ormodels of parametric composition 
learned with word embeddings [15].  
Cross-lingual word representations allows us to reason on 
meaning of words in multilingual contexts and are key 
facilitators of cross-lingual transitionwhile designing models 
with natural language processing for low resource languages. 
A detailed typology of cross-lingual word embedding models 
was presented in this research. Compare their objective 
functions and data criteria. The recurrentconcept of the 
research survey is that majority of themodels presented in 
literature strive for similargoals, and that apparently different 
models are equal most of the time, hyper-parameters, modulo 
optimization strategies, and so on. The numerous ways in 
which cross-lingual word embeddings isassessed are also 
discussed, as well as research horizons and future challenges 
[16][17]. 
In [18], The authors worked on Cross-lingual classification of 
sentiments to instantaneously forecast the sentiment polarity of 
information in a label-scarce target language by utilizing 
labelled data through a label-rich language. The researchers 
have made use of the given multilingual sentiment 
classification data sets, containing Amazon product feedbacks 
in 4 languages German, French, English and Japanese of the 
three categories Music, DVD, Books.The research work in 
[19], explains Edinburgh’s neural machine translation systems 
for WMT16 shared news translation challenge. The 
experimental research was performed for four pairs of 
language in both directions: English-Russian, English-
Romanian, English-Germanand English-Czech.  
The authors in [20], using Q.E. technique worked on the 
personalized Chinese–English CLIR. In this research work, 
initial query was extended by making additions ofrelevant 
wordsthat were extracted from the user’s past information of 
one language. Article [21] gives importance for improvingthe 
searching and rankingelements of CLIR frameworkby making 
use of PSO (Particle Swarm Optimization) algorithm and 
Naïve Bayes. For translating English queries into Hindi 

 
 
1288 
Copyright © Authors 
IT in Industry, Vol. 9, No.1, 2021 
Published Online 18-Mar-2021 
ISSN (Print): 2204-0595 
ISSN (Online): 2203-1731 
language bilingual translator was used, further Hindi queries 
were expanded with the synonyms of the same.  
 
3. CLIR Approach 
IR (Information Retrieval) is a much-needed activity in a 
cross-lingual community as itcreates a mediumforaddressing 
the problem of language barriers. In Cross-lingual information 
retrieval, three forms of translation may be used for retrieving 
the information: document translation, query translation and 
both document - query translation. 
Query Translation Approach: This is method of translating 
each word present in user query of onelanguage into another 
language. The usefulnessof the translation of queries relies on 
the translational tool that can communicate theneeds of the 
consumer. Translation of queries may be accomplished by 
machine translation, dictionaryand corpus.Query words will be 
analysedlinguisticallyinn dictionary translation and only the 
keywords are translated by utilizing machine readable 
dictionaries. Query words are translated on basis of 
multilingual terms got from comparable documents or parallel 
collection in the case of corpus translation. In the case of 
parallel corpus, group of texts are translated into oneor many 
languages. 
In 
machine 
translation, 
query 
terms 
is 
beingtranslated automatically from one language to another by 
making use of a context. 
Document 
Translation 
Approach: 
TheDocument 
Translation Approachcould be a most ideal scenario in Cross-
Lingual IR, if the aim is allowing the users to look for the 
documents 
which 
varies 
from 
their 
language 
&get 
theoutcomes in the language of the user. In this way, it’sreally 
a better choicebecause it does notrequire the user to have a 
passive knowledge of foreign languages. In thisapproach, all 
the target languages are being translated to source language. 
Twofold is the function of thistranslation. First, post 
translation 
or‘on-the–fly 
translation’ 
or 
‘as-and-when-
needed’,where records of any language being searched by the 
user is being translated into user languageat the time of query. 
Dual Translation (Both Document& Query) Approach: In 
this dual translation approach – both documentsas well 
asqueries are converted into a commonrepresentation. This 
dual 
approach 
needs 
additional 
storage 
space 
for 
translatedfiles but offersusability when several languages need 
the same set of documents. Controlled vocabulary systems are 
one of theexamples for such type of approach. Using a pre-
defined list of language-independent concepts, these systems 
reflect all documents andimplement queries in same definition 
space. This approach defines the precision orgranularity of 
possible searching. The key problem of regulated vocabulary 
frameworks 
is 
that, 
generally 
nonexpertusers 
require 
someamount 
of 
training 
and 
oftenneed 
vocabulary 
interfacesinorder to generate successive queries. 
Hybrid translation approach also called as dual translation 
approachmay also be performed by pivot language. Due 
tolimitations of translation facilities, direct translation between 
two languages may not always be feasible. A third languageor 
a resource named pivot language is neededto perform such 
type of translation between these languages. Two types of 
approaches are possible in this process: either document or the 
query is transferred to pivot language first, and later 
transferred to the target language; transfer both query and 
document into pivotlanguage as shown below in Fig.6. 
 
Fig.6: Block Diagram showingDual Translation using thePivot 
Language 
 
In the above block diagram, query of Kannada (i.e. source 
language) is being fired by the user for searching documents 
from target language (i.e. Hindi). Surprisingly, due to lack of 
translator availability, translation process cannot be created 
between these two pairs of language. 
Hence, firstly the query is converted into intermediate or pivot 
language (i.e. English) which may establishrelationship 
between document and query. Now, pivot language query is 
again converted into target language for searching the 
documents. The documents that are retrieved (That is Hindi) 
are being translatedto English language. Further notranslation 
process of the thesis to source language is necessary if user is 
able to read documents in English. The Table-1 differentiates 
the three of CLIR. 
Over the past couple of years, Cross Lingual IR research has 
improved and too manyframeworks have beendeveloped. 
Some of the important CLIR systemsare explained in Table-2. 
The importance of CLIR is continuously increasing in each 
and every field because knowledgeable people are available in 
almost every languages of World and wants to enhance as well 
as share their knowledge. 

 
 
1289 
Copyright © Authors 
IT in Industry, Vol. 9, No.1, 2021 
Published Online 18-Mar-2021 
ISSN (Print): 2204-0595 
ISSN (Online): 2203-1731 
 
 
 
4. Proposed Framework forKannada-English, Hindi-
English CLIR  
 The proposed framework of our CLIR system as depicted in 
Fig. 7, can be bifurcated into various phases: Test Collections, 
ranking of documents, candidate term filtering, query 
translation, searching of documents, user’s query and Web 
searching with elongated query. Forevaluating the length of 
each retrieved document and frequency of each query terms 
UAM corpus tool is used. 
 
Fig.7: Proposed CLIR Architecture system 
The user enter query with the help of the search engine 
indicatingthe type of data he wants to obtain. For testing the 
system, 20 Hindi queries are received from FIRE (Forum for 
Information Retrieval Evaluation) test collection to retrieve 
English documents against each question. 
The process of query translationincludes translation of queries 
with the help of Google translator (MT tool). Incorrect 
conversion may lead to poor performance due to lack of 
efficient communication between documents and query in 
cross-linguistic IR. Further, for improving the precision of 
automatic query translation, we used the approach of back 
translation. Back-translation [22] keeps a check on the 
accuracy of query translation by converting it to user’s 
language. It is a very effective technique for improving 
accuracy of automatic query translation. It also decreases the 
requirement of manual linguistic assistance for some of the 
queries where human intervention may be required.After the 
query translation, Google has been used for fast processing 
reliability and capability to receive documents against each 
query.  
The retrieved documents that were received from Google 
search against each query is being re-ranked. The top 10 
retrieved documents of each query are being ranked using 
OkapiBM25 [23]. OkapiBM25 is a mixture of BM11 and 
BM15, here BM stands for “Best Match”. Ranking done using 
OkapiBM25 arranged necessary document at the top by 
making adjustments in the order of retrieved documents which 
is highly relevant and mines information from top ranked 
documents formaking changes in the user query. For 
extracting the candidate terms filtering is performed to create 
various test collections. 
For the most part, query of user consists not many 
catchphrases to communicate required data. In the event that 
these catchphrases are discovered equivocal, web crawlers 
may neglect to recover records according to the user 
requirements. To address the issues of uncertainty in queries, 
the procedures termed Query Expansion (Q.E) is utilized. The 
Q.E cycle includes the two significant stages. The main stage 
includes the looking of most fitting competitor term to extend 
the first query. The subsequent stage, annexes the proper 
candidate terms in query at suitable place. In the research 
works, the extension terms are gotten from different sources 
by using the documents which are retrieved. 
 
5. Experimentation and Results Analysis 
The queries been interpreted utilizing Google interpreter and 
the precision of interpretation has been checked through the 
back-translation method. Be that as it may, some queries have 
been inaccurately deciphered as resulting in back-translation 
works. For these inquiries just human mediation was required. 
The records got after Google looking against each inquiry are 
positioned utilizing OkapiBM25 [24]. Numerous specialists 
have demonstrated that OkapiBM25 is a powerful technique 

 
 
1290 
Copyright © Authors 
IT in Industry, Vol. 9, No.1, 2021 
Published Online 18-Mar-2021 
ISSN (Print): 2204-0595 
ISSN (Online): 2203-1731 
and assumes a significant part in Q.E. The reports ranking is 
done to recognize the most important docs against each 
inquiry which could be utilized as corpus for Q.E. The 
OkapiBM25 
values 
are 
calculated 
by 
using 
the 
condition:
Where: ‘q’ is a terms ‘t’ contained in query; ‘d’ is document; 
‘N’ is count of docs in the collection; ‘ft’ is quantity of 
docsconsisting terms ‘t’and ‘f d, t‘ isthe quantity of occurrences 
of ‘t’ in d; and value of k is got by using the formula: 
 
In this, constants k1 and b are set respectively to 1.2 and 0.75; 
‘Ld’ and ‘AL’ are doc length and average doc length 
respectively. The length of everydoc as well as frequency of 
every query terms are calculated by UAM corpus [25] tool for 
completely20 queries. The screenshots are displayed in figures 
Fig.8a and Fig.8b are the snapshots of the experimentation 
done using UAM corpus tool. The length of the docs ‘Ld’ and 
‘AL’ are calculatedmaking use of this tool. 
 
 
 
Figure 8a: Snapshots of UAM corpus tool experiment 
 
 
 
Figure 8b: Snapshots of experimentation with tools of  UAM 
corpus 
 
For the assessment of relevancy, three measures are viewed as, 
for example, Precision, Average Precision and Mean Average 
Precision. For computing these, many of important reports are 
chosen physically from the top @10 recovered docs. 
Exactness or Precision is the extent of number of significant 

 
 
1291 
Copyright © Authors 
IT in Industry, Vol. 9, No.1, 2021 
Published Online 18-Mar-2021 
ISSN (Print): 2204-0595 
ISSN (Online): 2203-1731 
recovered docs to the quantity of recovered docs. Precision for 
each inquiry is figured utilizing the formula: 
 
 
The Average Precision is the normal of the accuracy value got 
for the arrangement of top K docs existing after every 
applicable doc is recovered, and such value is then found the 
average value of over data needs. The Map: Mean Average 
Precision for a bunch of queries is the mean of the normal 
accuracy scores for each inquiry and is processed utilizing 
condition: 
 
 Where, Q (20 in our case) is the total count of queries.  
In the experimentation done by us, the candidate_terms are 
acquired from FIRE test collection for every inquiry. The Q.E. 
is performed with and without ranking of recovered docs If 
there should be an occurrence of ranking of reports, the 
OkapiBM25 ranking is thought of. The expansion of query is 
acted in both the cases and the extended inquiries are recorded. 
The Table-3 portrays the Precision, AP and MAP values for all 
cases prior and later the Q.E. The correlation of Precision, AP 
and MAP estimations of the relative multitude of cases are 
demonstrated in Fig. 9, Fig.10 and Fig.11 separately. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
While making the comparison of the results before and after 
Q.E., we observed a relevancy improvement without 
OkapiBM25and withOkapiBM25. This observation depicts 
that QE provide better to web searchers. Further, we also 
compared relevancy (in term of MAP) of Q.E. without& 
withOkapiBM25. 
The 
outcomes 
of 
these 
two 
observationsshows that relevancy of Q.E. with OkapiBM25 is 
higher than without OkapiBM25. Hence, QE with OkapiBM25 
is considered to be one of the best tools for improvement of 
relevant documents for web searchers in Cross Linguistic IR. 
 
6. Conclusion 
The complete analysis of the research expresses that expansion 
of query is a compelling procedure that expands the 
importance of our Hindi-English and Kannada-English CLIR 
framework. The ranking assumes a significant function in 
creation inquiry extension more successful for recovering the 

 
 
1292 
Copyright © Authors 
IT in Industry, Vol. 9, No.1, 2021 
Published Online 18-Mar-2021 
ISSN (Print): 2204-0595 
ISSN (Online): 2203-1731 
most applicable docs. At the time of query expansion, the 
adding of candidate terms in a query at suitable place further 
expands the recovery pertinence, for which we presented 
location-dependent calculation. Out of all the test collections, 
Snippets are discovered to be much esteemed test collection as 
they give the ongoing assortment of candidate terms for every 
inquiry to perform powerful query extension. The result of this 
exploration work opens a stage for creating indexing of search 
for more languages belong to various regions. 
 
 References 
[1].    Dwivedi SK, Chandra G. A Survey on Cross 
Language Information Retrieval. IntJ Cybernet 
Inform (IJCI) 2016;5(1):127–42. 
[2].   Sharma M, Morwal S. A survey on cross-language 
information retrieval. Int JAdv Res Comput 
2015;4(2):384–7. 
[3].    Kornai A. A new method of language vitality 
assessment. Linguistic andCultural Diversity in 
Cyberspace 2015;132. 
[4].    Giang LT, Hung VT, Phap HC. Building structured 
query in target language forvietnamese-english 
cross-language IR systems. Int J EngResTechnol 
2015;4(04):146–51. 
[5].    Kumar MA, Rajendran S, Soman KP. Cross-lingual 
preposition disambiguationfor machine translation. 
Procedia Comput Sci 2015; 54:291–300. 
[6].   Vulic´ I, Moens M. Monolingual and cross-lingual 
information retrieval modelsbased on (bilingual) 
word embeddings. In: In Proceedings of the 
38thInternational ACM SIGIR Conference on 
Research 
and 
Development 
inInformation 
Retrieval. p. 363–72. ACM. 
[7].   Vilares J, Vilares M, Alonso M, Oakes M. On the 
feasibility of character n-gramspseudo-translation 
for cross-language information retrieval tasks. 
ComputSpeech Lang 2016:136–64. 
[8].   Chandra 
G, 
Dwivedi 
SK. 
Assessing 
query 
translation quality using backtranslation in hindi-
english 
CLIR. 
Int 
J 
Intelligent 
SystAppl 
2017;9(3):51–9. 
[9].   Layfield C, Ivanovic D, Azzopardi J. Multi-Lingual 
LSA with Serbian andCroatian. An Investigative 
Case Study; 2017. 
[10]. Elayeb B, Romdhane WB, Saoud NBB. Towards a 
new possibilistic querytranslation tool for cross-
language 
information 
retrieval. 
Multimedia 
ToolsAppl. 2017:1–43. 
[11].    Mohamed, 
Ebtsam&Elmougy, 
Samir 
&Aref, 
Mostafa. (2019). Toward multi-lingual information 
retrieval system based on internet linguistic 
diversity measurement. Ain Shams Engineering 
Journal. 10. 10.1016/j.asej.2018.11.009. 
[12].    Waleed 
Ammar, 
George 
Mulcaire, 
Miguel 
Ballesteros, Chris Dyer, and Noah A Smith. 2016. 
Many languages, one parser. arXiv preprint 
arXiv:1602.01595. 
[13].    Melvin Johnson, Mike Schuster, Quoc V Le, 
Maxim Krikun, Yonghui Wu, Zhifeng Chen, Nikhil 
Thorat, Fernanda Vi´egas, MartinWattenberg, Greg 
Corrado, et al. 2016. Google’s multilingual neural 
machine translation system: Enabling zero-shot 
translation.  
[14].    Aditya Mogadala and Achim Rettinger. 2016. 
Bilingual word embeddings from parallel and 
nonparallel 
corpora 
for 
cross-language 
text 
classification. In Proceedings of NAACL-HLT, 
pages 692–702. 
[15].    Holger Schwenk, Ke Tran, Orhan Firat, and 
Matthijs Douze. 2017. Learning joint multilingual 
sentence representations with neural machine 
translation. 
[16].    Sebastian Ruder, A Survey of Cross-lingual Word 
Embedding 
Models, 
Journal 
of 
Artificial 
Intelligence Research 65 (2019) 569-631 
[17].    P. Paranjape, N. Funde, M. Thakur, M. Dhabu and 
P. Deshpande, "A Robust and Automated Approach 
for Multilingual Indian Document Indexing," 2019 
5th 
International 
Conference 
on 
Advanced 
Computing & Communication Systems (ICACCS), 
Coimbatore, India, 2019, pp. 457-462. 
[18].    Zhou, Guangyou, et al. “Transfer learning for cross-
lingual sentiment classification withweakly shared 
deep neural network,”, Proceedings of the 39th 
International ACM SIGIRconference on Research 
and Development in Information Retrieval. ACM, 
2016. 
[19].   Sennrich, Rico, Barry Haddow, and Alexandra 
Birch. 
“Edinburgh 
neural 
machinetranslation 
systems 
for 
wmt 
16”, 
arXiv 
preprint 
arXiv:1606.02891 (2016). 
[20].   Zhou, 
Dong, 
et 
al. 
“Query 
expansion 
for 
personalized cross-language informationretrieval”, 
Semantic and Social Media Adaptation and 
Personalization (SMAP), 201510th International 
Workshop on. IEEE, 2015. 
[21].   Katta, Eva, and Anuja Arora. “An Improved 
Approach to English-Hindi Based CrossLanguage 
Information 
Retrieval 
system”, 
Contemporary 
Computing 
(IC3), 
2015 
EighthInternational 
Conference on. IEEE, 2015. 
[22].    Imran, H., & Sharan, A. “Thesaurus and Query 
Expansion”, 
International 
journal 
ofcomputer 

 
 
1293 
Copyright © Authors 
IT in Industry, Vol. 9, No.1, 2021 
Published Online 18-Mar-2021 
ISSN (Print): 2204-0595 
ISSN (Online): 2203-1731 
science & information Technology (IJCSIT), 1(2), 
89-97, 2009. 
[23].   Sari, Syandra, and MimaAdriani. “Learning to rank 
for determining relevant document inIndonesian-
English cross language information retrieval using 
BM25”, 
AdvancedComputer 
Science 
and 
Information 
Systems 
(ICACSIS), 
2014 
International Conferenceon. IEEE, 2014. 
[24].   Ermakova, Liana, and Josiane Mothe. “Document 
re-ranking 
based 
on 
topic-commentstructure”, 
Research Challenges in 
Information Science 
(RCIS), 2016 IEEE TenthInternational Conference 
on. IEEE, 2016. 
[25].    http://www.corpustool.com