arXiv:2404.08628v1  [cs.IR]  12 Apr 2024
Accessibility in Information Retrieval
Leif Azzopardi1 and Vishwa Vinay2
1 Dept. of Computing Science,
University of Glasgow,
Glasgow UK,
leif@dcs.gla.ac.uk,
2 Microsoft Research Cambridge
Cambridge, UK
vvinay@microsoft.com
Abstract. This paper introduces the concept of accessibility from the
ﬁeld of transportation planning and adopts it within the context of In-
formation Retrieval (IR). An analogy is drawn between the ﬁelds, which
motivates the development of document accessibility measures for IR
systems. Considering the accessibility of documents within a collection
given an IR System provides a diﬀerent perspective on the analysis and
evaluation of such systems which could be used to inform the design,
tuning and management of current and future IR systems.
Keywords: Fairness, Bias, Equality, Accessibility, Retrievability
1
Introduction
Information Retrieval is the area that deals with the storage, organization, man-
agement and retrieval of information, where the goal of continual research in
the ﬁeld is to ﬁnd better methods of doing the same. In pursuit of this better-
ment evaluation has been instrumental in the development of IR Systems. While
evaluation has typically focused on the eﬀectiveness [14], or the eﬃciency [16] of
the IR system, these are only two ways in which to assess the quality of an IR
system. In this paper, we introduce a complementary view to evaluation which
provides a higher level view of the IR system by focusing on the accessibility an
IR system provides to the documents in a collection.
Accessibility is an abstract concept coined almost 50 years ago in the land
use and transportation planning ﬁeld [10], where it was deﬁned as a measure of
potential opportunities for interaction with resources like employment, school-
ing, shopping, dining, etc. Measuring the accessibility in this context enabled
many studies (e.g. [10][12][15][7]) to be performed which examined, for exam-
ple, how changes in the levels of accessibility to such opportunities aﬀected the
urban area (in terms of economic impact, social changes and so forth). The re-
sults of such studies provide valuable information to transportation planners and
city designers in the development of land use and transportation systems. Be-
fore this, planners and designers would focus on measures which were based on

the eﬀectiveness and eﬃciency of the transportation system (such as, the travel
time between particular locations). However, accessibility provided a diﬀerent
perspective, and while related to eﬀectiveness and eﬃciency, it takes a more
abstracted or high level view on the evaluation of transportation systems, con-
sidering more general concerns relating to access, instead of focusing on speciﬁc
instances.
Their deﬁnition of accessibility3 considers the accessibility of opportunities
at locations in a physical space (such as a city). The transportation system is the
means by which opportunities are made accessible (i.e., the road network and
the bus, cycle path and a bicycle, etc). In this context, the main consideration
in the design and management of the transportation system is to look beyond
eﬃciency and eﬀectiveness and to consider the accessibility of opportunities given
a certain distance or the generalized cost the user is willing to incur to reach
these opportunities and the desirability of these opportunities.
In the context of Information Retrieval, an analogy of accessibility can be
made as follows. Instead of an actual physical space, in IR, we are predomi-
nately concerned with accessing information within a collection of documents
(i.e., information space), and instead of a transportation system, we have an In-
formation Access System (i.e., a means by which we can access the information
in the collection, like a query mechanism, a browsing mechanism, etc). The ac-
cessibility of a document is indicative of the likelihood or opportunity of it being
retrieved by the user in this information space given such a mechanism. For ex-
ample, in a hyper-linked collection exposed by a browsing-based system, a page
with no incoming or outgoing links will have no accessibility. Conversely, a page
with thousands of incoming links would be very accessible. Here, we consider the
accessibility of documents given an IR system, where documents are accessed by
querying the system. Each query provides a diﬀerent ordering in which to access
the documents in the information space. Much like a particular bus taking a
pre-deﬁned route through a city. However, unlike in the physical space, in the
information space, there is no constraint imposed by the user’s current location
(i.e., at a particular document) because the IR system facilitates access to the
collection regardless of location. The IR system is like being at a bus stop where
every possible bus route is available, (i.e., the universe of all possible queries),
and we can select any route desired, at any time. While this makes every docu-
ment potentially accessible, the choice of route and distance the user is willing
to travel will aﬀect just how accessible documents are in the information space.
3 Accessibility is also a key concept in other areas but deﬁned diﬀerently. For in-
stance, the disability rights movement advocates equal access to social, political,
and economic life which includes not only physical access but access to the same
tools, services, organizations and facilities. Another example is the World Wide Web
Consortium (W3C)’s Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI), which is aimed to improve
the accessibility of the World Wide Web for people using a wide range of user agent
devices, not just standard web browsers. However, accessibility in these contexts
concentrates on the physical aspects of accessing the information, and even extends
to issues regarding usability and mobility.

In this paper, our main contribution is the introduction of the concept of
accessibility and the proposal of how to measure accessibility in this context.
To do so, we ﬁrst describe the related research in Section
2 and draw upon
the extensive body of work in transportation planning and land use to provide
the basis in developing measures of accessibility for IR system. Then in Section
3, we propose two IR based accessibility measures that are analogous to those
in the ﬁeld of transportation. The introduction of accessibility presents many
diﬀerent possibilities and challenges which can not be fully addressed here, so
we summarize this initial contribution in Section 4.
2
Related Work
In Hansen’s seminal paper [10] on measuring accessibility in transportation plan-
ning and land use, he deﬁnes how accessibility could be measured:
a measurement of the spatial distribution of activities about a point ad-
justed for the ability and the desire of people or ﬁrms to overcome spatial
separation. More speciﬁcally, the formulation states that the accessibility at
point 1 to a particular type of activity at area 2 (say employment) is directly
proportional to the size of the activity at area 2 (number of jobs) and inversely
proportional to some function of the distance separating point 1 from area 2.
The total accessibility to employment at point 1 is the summation of the ac-
cessibility to each of the individual areas around point 1. Therefore, as more
and more jobs are located nearer to point 1, the accessibility to employment
at point 1 will increase.
Key to this deﬁnition is the notion that as opportunities become further
away the less accessible they become, and that by considering all possibilities to
opportunities subject to the cost function based on the distance apart, provides
a measure of accessibility. Essentially, this measure quantiﬁes the potential of
opportunities for interaction [10]. In the context of IR, the opportunities are the
documents in the information space, and we wish to capture the potential of
documents for retrieval.
2.1
Measures of Accessibility in Transportation Planning
There are numerous measures of accessibility that have been proposed in the
ﬁeld of Transportation Planning; the simplest and most popular measures are
the Cumulative Opportunity Measures and Gravity Based Measures.
Cumulative Opportunity Measures also known as Isochrone measures count
the number of opportunities that can be reached within a given travel time,
distance, or generalized cost [15]. An example application of the measure is “the
total number of dining opportunities within 400 metres”. The advantage of this
measure is that it is intuitive and easy to compute. However, the measure is
sensitive to the size of the range (around the point of interest) to be considered,
and the representation of the opportunities.

First derived by [10], Gravity Based Measures provide a general method for
measuring accessibility, which is widely used. They diﬀer from cumulative based
measures in that they include a cost function within the calculation. Generally,
the cost function takes the form of a negative exponential function (as described
by [10], above), such that opportunities that are further away will have a lower
impact on the ﬁnal accessibility value. By “further”, it is meant in terms of time,
distance or generalized cost.
While more sophisticated measures have been developed, such as Utility
Based Measures [12] and Activity Based Measures [7], we shall only be consider-
ing the former two methods in this work as they are the most widely used and
accepted measures in transportation and planning. Thus, it seems reasonable to
use these as a starting point to determine if they can be useful and informative
in IR, before developing more sophisticated measures.
2.2
Accessibility in Information Retrieval
Accessibility issues in IR have focused on restrictions (physical and virtual) to in-
dex or retrieve information, whether this is because of a physical impairment [8],
restricted access due to security clearance [11], or the inability to crawl portions
of the web [4]. In each case, documents are inaccessible to the user or the sys-
tem because of some physical or virtual limitation. For instance, in the latter
case, the inability to crawl a web site means that certain documents are not
indexed by the IR system, and therefore are not accessible to the user via the
IR system. Recently, it was posited that the “searchability” of a web site would
be aﬀected by how easily pages can be crawled and how well the search engine
matches and ranks them [13]. Searchability and accessibility are therefore very
similar concepts. However, we are concerned with the inﬂuence of the IR sys-
tem on accessing documents. Others (e.g. [9][5]) have considered how documents
are accessed from the index in the retrieval process to facilitate more eﬃcient
retrieval by considering processor, disk and memory constraints. For instance
“access-ordered indices” [9] are where the documents which are more likely to
be returned at higher ranks are placed before those that are not likely to be
returned at higher ranks. Another example, is the caching of queries [3], in web
search engines, where results pages are cached in response to popular queries in
order to facilitate eﬃcient access.
In essence, IR is all about accessing information, and how the information
is accessed. Our work is focused on measuring the accessibility of documents
in the collection given the IR system used to access these documents. This is
diﬀerent from past work, in that we are speciﬁcally examining the inﬂuence
of the IR system to restrict or promote access to the information within the
collection as opposed to other restrictions. This paper hopes to establish the idea
of accessibility as an integral concept in the ﬁeld by highlighting its potential in
the practical task of developing, building, and optimizing IR Systems, as well as
diagnostics and evaluation.

3
Measuring Document Accessibility
Given a collection D, an IR system accepts a user query q and returns a ranking
of documents Rq, which are deemed to be relevant to q from within D by the IR
system. We can consider the accessibility of a document as a system dependent
factor that measures how retrievable it is, with respect to the collection D and
the ranking function used by the IR system. Using the analogy of transporta-
tion, entering a query is like to choosing a particular bus, where the order of
documents returned are like the order of destinations reached for that given bus
route. Opportunities to interact with resources while traveling along the route
are reﬂected by going through the documents returned in the ranking Rq. The
accessibility of the resources (i.e., documents) is dependant on the willingness
of the user to travel a certain distance along the route (i.e., traverse down the
ranked list) and all the queries that users are likely to travel along. So, by adapt-
ing the measures from transportation planning, we propose a general measure
of the accessibility of a document, as:
A(d) =
X
q∈Q
oq · f(cdq, θ)
(1)
where oq denotes the likelihood of expressing query q from the universe of queries
Q and f(cdq, θ) is a generalized utility/cost function where cdq is the distance
associated with accessing d through q which is deﬁned by the rank of the doc-
ument, and θ is a parameter or set of parameters given the speciﬁc type of
measure.
A cumulative based measure can then be deﬁned as follows: θ = c, where c
denotes the maximum rank that a user is willing to proceed down the ranked
list. The function f(cdq, c) returns a value of 1 if cdq ≤c (with the top-most
position considered as rank 1), and 0 otherwise. So, if returning a document
in response to a given query has a distance greater than c associated with it,
then it is considered unaccessible (for this query). For another query however, the
document may be accessible because the cost of accessing it is within the distance
c. Alternatively, the document could be considered accessible for the same query
but to a user who has a higher cost threshold. Since all the documents within
the cutoﬀdeﬁned by c are equally weighted, this type of measure emphasizes
the number of times the document can be retrieved within that cutoﬀover the
set Q.
A gravity based measure can also be deﬁned by setting the function to reﬂect
the eﬀort of going further down the ranked list, such that the further down the
ranking the less accessible a document becomes. There are numerous ways in
which such a function could be determined. Here, we adopt the function sug-
gested in [10], where the accessibility of the document is inversely proportional
to the rank of the document, such that:
f(cdq, β) =
1
(cdq)β
(2)

where, the set of parameters θ includes β which is a dampening factor that
adjusts how accessible the document is in the ranking. Interestingly, if the β
parameter is set to one, then accessibility of the document for the given query
is equivalent to the reciprocal rank of the document, which is related to the
(expected) search length [6]. When there is only one relevant document, the
expected search length is equivalent to the reciprocal rank of the document.
Intuitively, the expected search length (ESL) and accessibility of documents is
related, because the expected search length corresponds to how many irrelevant
documents have to be examined in order to ﬁnd the relevant documents. The
expected search length to a particular document is proportional to the accessi-
bility of the document for a given query. However, what the accessibility measure
captures is more general, i.e., how retrievable the document is given all possi-
ble/likely queries regardless of relevancy, but this link to ESL and reciprocal
rank appears to provide a connection between accessibility and eﬀectiveness. As
we have previously mentioned this direction is left for future work.
Given either measure, A(d) provides an indication of the opportunity of
retrieving d. This value can be obtained for each document d ∈D so that we
can compare whether there is more opportunity to retrieve one document over
another. Using this measure to compare groups of documents has potential to
aid in the design, management and tuning of retrieval systems in a number of
ways. Imagine that for a given collection of documents and a given IR system,
the average A(d) of a set of documents is extremely high, while for another set of
documents the average A(d) is very low. Perhaps, the ﬁrst set of documents was
a group of site entry pages, and our system has a prior towards such pages, thus
we would expect these pages to have a higher A(d). In this case, it is desirable
that these documents are so accessible. On the other hand, if the set of highly
accessible pages was composed of spam pages, because these pages have used
“tricks” to artiﬁcially inﬂate the number of queries for which they are retrieved,
then this is not desirable and the system needs to be adjusted. Alternatively,
if there is a set of documents which are virtually inaccessible in the collection,
then it is a management decision to decide whether these documents should be
included in the index or not.
At a higher level, the measure A(d) motivates questions regarding how ac-
cessible documents in the collection should be, and whether we are interested
in trying to “hide” or “promote” certain documents within the collection. Or
whether we should adopt an approach that ensures access to the information is
free from bias, i.e. “universal access”4 so that any document is as accessible as
any other document in the collection. This provides a novel framework for mea-
suring document accessibility, which enables the consideration of such questions
and issues.
4 As previously mentioned, the disability rights movement advocates equal access and
terms this notion as universal access.

4
Conclusion and Future Work
The main contribution of this paper is the introduction of the concept of ac-
cessibility and quantifying the accessibility of documents in the collection given
a particular IR system. Measures of accessibility are not performance measures
like eﬀectiveness or eﬃciency, but instead are measures of the potential of doc-
uments for retrieval (a.k.a., their retrievability [2]). This abstraction provides a
novel way to quantify and detect diﬀerent levels of accessibility within the col-
lection imposed by the IR system. For a system administrator, this could prove
to be very useful in designing, managing and tuning the IR system (see [1] for
empirical examples).
This work represents the initial step towards formalizing accessibility and de-
veloping accessibility measures for information spaces, in IR and more generally
for any Information Access system. However, there are many open problems,
challenges and issues which have arisen as a result of this work. Further research
needs to be conducted in two main directions:
1. the calibration, computation and estimation of document accessibility mea-
sures, and
2. the application of document accessibility measures.
Acknowledgements The authors would like to thank Stephen Robertson, Keith
van Rijsbergen and Murat Yakici for their helpful and insightful comments and
suggestions.
References
1. L. Azzopardi and V. Vinay. Document accessibility: Evaluating the access aﬀorded
to a document by the retrieval system. In Workshop on Novel Methodologies for
Evaluation in Information Retrieval, pages 52–60, March 2008.
2. L. Azzopardi and V. Vinay. Retrievability: an evaluation measure for higher order
information access tasks. In Proceedings of the 17th ACM Conference on Informa-
tion and Knowledge Management, CIKM ’08, page 561–570, 2008.
3. R. Baeza-Yates, A. Gionis, F. Junqueira, V. Murdock, V. Plachouras, and F. Sil-
vestri. The impact of caching on search engines. In Proceedings of the 30th ACM
SIGIR conference, pages 183–190, 2007.
4. P. Bailey, N. Craswell, and D. Hawking.
Chart of darkness: Mapping a large
intranet. Technical report, CSIRO Mathematical and Information Sciences, 2000.
5. S. Buttcher and C. L. A. Clarke. A document-centric approach to static index
pruning in text retrieval systems. In Proceedings of the 15th ACM Conference on
Information and Knowledge Management, 2006.
6. W. S. Cooper. Expected search length: A single measure of retrieval eﬀectiveness
based on weak ordering action of retrieval systems. Journal of the American Society
for Information Science, 19(1):30–41, 1968.
7. X. Dong, M. E. Ben-Akiva, J. L. Bowman, and J. L. Walker. Moving from trip-
based to activity-based measures of accessibility. Transportation research. Part A,
Policy and practice, 40(2):163–180, 2006.

8. I. Fajardo, J. J. Canas, L. Salmeron, and J. Abascal. Improving deaf users’ acces-
sibility in hypertext information retrieval: are graphical interfaces useful for them?
Behaviour and Information Technology, 25(6):455–467(13), 2006.
9. S. Garcia, H. E. Williams, and A. Cannane. Access-ordered indexes. In Twenty-
Seveth Australasian Computer Science Conference (ACSC2004), pages 7–14, 2004.
10. W. Hansen. How accessibility shape land use. Journal of the American Institute
of Planners, 25(2):73–76, 1959.
11. D. Hawking. Challenges in enterprise search. In ADC ’04: Proceedings of the 15th
Australasian database conference, pages 15–24, Darlinghurst, Australia, Australia,
2004. Australian Computer Society, Inc.
12. H. Neuburger.
User beneﬁt in the evaluation of transport and land use plans.
Journal of Transport Economics and Policy, 5:52–75, 1971.
13. T. Upstill, N. Craswell, and D. Hawking. Buying bestsellers online: A case study
in search & searchability. In 7th Australasian Document Computing Symposium,
Sydney, Australia, 2002.
14. C. J. van Rijsbergen. Information Retrieval. Butterworths, London, second edition
edition, 1979.
15. M. Wachs and T. G. Kumagai. Physiscal accessibility as a social indicator. So-
cioeconomic Planning Science, 7:327–456, 1973.
16. I. H. Witten, A. Moﬀat, and B. T. C.
Managing Gigabytes: Compressing and
Indexing Documents and Images.
Morgan Kaufmann Publishing, San Franciso,
second edition edition, 1999.