FlexKBQA: A Flexible LLM-Powered Framework for Few-Shot Knowledge Base
Question Answering
Zhenyu Li1*, Sunqi Fan1*, Yu Gu2, Xiuxing Li3†, Zhichao Duan1,
Bowen Dong1, Ning Liu4, Jianyong Wang1†
1Tsinghua University
2The Ohio State University
3University of Chinese Academy of Sciences
4 Shandong University
Abstract
Knowledge base question answering (KBQA) is a critical yet
challenging task due to the vast number of entities within
knowledge bases and the diversity of natural language ques-
tions posed by users. Unfortunately, the performance of most
KBQA models tends to decline significantly in real-world
scenarios where high-quality annotated data is insufficient.
To mitigate the burden associated with manual annotation, we
introduce FlexKBQA by utilizing Large Language Models
(LLMs) as program translators for addressing the challenges
inherent in the few-shot KBQA task. Specifically, FlexKBQA
leverages automated algorithms to sample diverse programs,
such as SPARQL queries, from the knowledge base, which
are subsequently converted into natural language questions
via LLMs. This synthetic dataset facilitates training a spe-
cialized lightweight model for the KB. Additionally, to re-
duce the barriers of distribution shift between synthetic data
and real user questions, FlexKBQA introduces an execution-
guided self-training method to iterative leverage unlabeled
user questions. Furthermore, we explore harnessing the inher-
ent reasoning capability of LLMs to enhance the entire frame-
work. Consequently, FlexKBQA delivers substantial flexibil-
ity, encompassing data annotation, deployment, and being do-
main agnostic. Through extensive experiments on GrailQA,
WebQSP, and KQA Pro, we observe that under the few-shot
even the more challenging zero-shot scenarios, FlexKBQA
achieves impressive results with a few annotations, surpass-
ing all previous baselines and even approaching the perfor-
mance of supervised models, achieving a remarkable 93%
performance relative to the fully-supervised models. We posit
that FlexKBQA represents a significant advancement towards
exploring better integration of large and lightweight models.
The source code and pertinent documentation are readily ac-
cessible on established open-source repositories 1.
Introduction
Knowledge base question answering (KBQA) plays a cru-
cial role in leveraging the substantial knowledge stored in
knowledge bases and making it accessible to users (Berant
et al. 2013; Yih et al. 2016; Gu et al. 2022). With the ever-
growing size and complexity of knowledge bases (KBs), ef-
fective KBQA systems are becoming increasingly impor-
tant. Many current KBQA systems depend on supervised
*These authors contributed equally.
†Corresponding author
1https://github.com/leezythu/FlexKBQA
Figure 1: An analytical experiment on 500 random samples
of GrailQA dev set (oracle entity linking). FlexKBQA’s per-
formance exhibits a consistently upward trend with the in-
creasing synthetic data size, surpassing all in-context learn-
ing models with limited window length. Since our synthetic
data are generated based on 25-shot real data, we also de-
pict the performance of our underlying model (RnG-KBQA)
trained by 25-shot real data as a baseline.
training using large sets of manually annotated data. This
approach brings about significant labor challenges for two
main reasons: (1) The substantial size and comprehensive
scope of the KB, coupled with its ever-evolving content, lead
to a vast sample space (Berant et al. 2013; Gu et al. 2021).
This complicates the process of collecting a representative
and exhaustive set of training data. (2) The heterogeneity in
KB schema and design protocols, combined with differences
in the query languages, such as SPARQL (Su et al. 2016), S-
expression (Gu et al. 2021), and KoPL (Cao et al. 2022a),
requires tailored training processes for each KB. This inten-
sifies the labor involved in developing and adapting models
for each distinct KB. Considering these complexities, there
emerges an imperative to forge a flexible framework that can
efficiently build adaptable KBQA models for different KBs
and query languages, utilizing only a limited set of anno-
tated examples.
The emergence of large language models (LLMs) in re-
cent times, such as Codex (Chen et al. 2021a) and GPT-
4 (OpenAI 2023), suggests promising avenues for con-
arXiv:2308.12060v3  [cs.CL]  26 Jan 2024

structing such frameworks. LLMs have showcased versatil-
ity across diverse tasks and remarkable generalization with
minimal demonstrations (Wei et al. 2022; Li et al. 2023a),
as exemplified in Cheng et al. (2023), where Codex out-
performs previous fine-tuning methods with only a handful
of examples. Such feats hint at LLMs’ potential in KBQA.
However, research on LLMs’ utility for few-shot KBQA re-
mains scant. Initial explorations by Li et al. (2023a) and Gu,
Deng, and Su (2023) employ in-context learning, allowing
LLMs to transform questions into programs using minimal
demonstrations. Nonetheless, this paradigm possess several
limitations. First, LLMs inherently scuffle with constraints
such as limited context window and considerable inference
overhead. Furthermore, LLMs, despite their generalization
capacities, face challenges in addressing the intricacies em-
bedded within domain-specific KBs when not fine-tuned,
leading to inaccuracies when generating target entities and
relations (Li et al. 2023a). Additionally, without fine-tuning,
the benefits of in-context learning diminish as more training
data is introduced (Gu, Deng, and Su 2023).
In light of these challenges, we present FlexKBQA (see
Figure 2), a flexible KBQA framework harnesses the ad-
vanced generative abilities of LLMs to produce synthetic
data, which in turn aids in the training of lightweight models.
Specifically, FlexKBQA first leverages collected templates
of structured queries to sample a substantial number of pro-
grams (i.e., S-expressions) from the KB. These programs
are then converted into coherent natural language questions
using LLMs, ensuring both the accuracy of the programs
and the fluency of the generated questions. Upon gener-
ating these program-question pairs, they serve as valuable
resources for the fine-tuning of lightweight models. How-
ever, there could be a potential distribution shift between
synthetic data and real user queries. To bridge this gap, we
further introduce the execution-guided self-training (EGST)
method, which employs the fine-tuned lightweight model to
proactively annotate real user queries over the KB. These an-
notated queries subsequently serve as valuable training data,
enabling self-improvement. FlexKBQA addresses the inher-
ent constraints of the context window of LLMs, enabling
the KBQA model to exhibit consistent improvement as more
training data is incorporated (Figure 1). Additionally, by del-
egating the inference process to lightweight models rather
than relying on the LLM directly, our approach ensures en-
hanced efficiency in inference.
We conduct extensive experiments on three representa-
tive datasets - GrailQA, WebQSP, and KQA Pro. FlexK-
BQA outperforms existing models by a large margin in the
few-shot setting. Remarkably, with a mere 25 labeled ex-
amples, FlexKBQA surpasses the performance of all previ-
ous methods utilizing 100 shots on GrailQA. Furthermore,
FlexKBQA’s results are comparable to several fully super-
vised models on both GrailQA and WebQSP datasets.
The main contributions of the paper can be highlighted as
follows:
• We present an efficient and flexible KBQA framework,
capitalizing on the notable generative capabilities of
LLMs.
• We introduce the execution-guided self-training strategy
to address the distribution shift challenge by facilitat-
ing interaction between heterogeneous information and
leveraging the inherent reasoning ability of LLM.
• Experimental results demonstrate that FlexKBQA signif-
icantly outperforms all baselines on real-world datasets
under different settings.
• To the best of our knowledge, our work represents the
inaugural endeavor in exploring the zero-shot KBQA.
Related Work
Knoweldge Base Question Answering
One prominent line of research on KBQA involves seman-
tic parsing, where natural language questions are mapped
to formal representations, such as SPARQL queries (Lan
et al. 2021; Cao et al. 2022b), enabling efficient querying
of structured knowledge bases. Recently, researchers have
proposed using step-wise discriminative approaches instead
of directly generating programs in an autoregressive fashion
to effectively limit the massive search space and reduce er-
rors, leading to state-of-the-art results (Gu and Su 2022; Gu,
Deng, and Su 2023). However, these models rely on a sub-
stantial number of annotated training samples from the KB.
Developing a usable QA system with only a limited amount
of annotated data from the KB is of great practical signifi-
cance.
Few-Shot Language Understanding with LLMs
Researchers have been dedicated to studying the language
understanding capabilities in the zero-shot or few-shot set-
ting (Gao et al. 2019; Li et al. 2022, 2023b). In recent years,
LLMs have demonstrated strong few-shot learning abilities
across various tasks, such as question answering (Cheng
et al. 2023), code generation (Ni et al. 2023), and embod-
ied agents (Singh et al. 2023). Recently, Pangu (Gu, Deng,
and Su 2023) and KB-BINDER (Li et al. 2023a) have pio-
neered the exploration of the few-shot setting on the KBQA
task. They conduct experiments under the in-context learn-
ing paradigm, providing a few question-program pairs and
allowing the large language model to leverage its comple-
tion capability to make new predictions. Despite the remark-
able generalization ability of large language models, they are
still limited by the inherent window size of in-context learn-
ing, which constrains their performance. Additionally, large
models come with drawbacks in terms of cost and security.
Therefore, in this paper, we explore a hybrid approach that
combines large and lightweight models, aiming to achieve
improved performance while being more deployable.
Combination of LLMs and light-weight models
Although LLMs have demonstrated strong capabilities
across various tasks, they are computationally expensive,
slow during inference, and difficult to deploy. Numerous re-
search endeavors have been focused on exploring the inter-
action and complementary aspects between large-scale mod-
els and lightweight models, e.g., distilling the knowledge
from large-scale models to lightweight models by matching

the output distribution (Hinton, Vinyals, and Dean 2015).
Despite the traditional knowledge distillation, researchers
propose a new paradigm called teaching via data (TvD),
in which they use an LLM-based “teacher” model to gen-
erate synthetic data for a specific task, then use the data
to fine-tune a smaller “student” model (Schick and Sch¨utze
2021; Rosenbaum et al. 2022a,b; Meng et al. 2022; Ye et al.
2022a). The types of synthetic data generated by LLM are
diverse. SYMGEN (Ye et al. 2023) first proposes using LLM
to generate symbolic language with execution-based verifi-
cation. Our work adopts the teaching via data paradigm but
we are the first to utilize LLM as program translator, thereby
addressing the challenge of annotating KBQA training data.
Methodology
Preliminaries
A knowledge base can be formally represented as K ∈
E × R × (E ∪L ∪C), where E represents the set of en-
tities, R denotes the set of relations between entities, and
C denotes the set of classes. The primary goal of KBQA is
to answer user questions by leveraging the facts stored in
the knowledge base. For accuracy and interpretability, most
existing work adopt a semantic parsing framework, trans-
forming natural language questions into programs, such as
S-expression or SPARQL. These programs can be executed
on the knowledge base to retrieve the final answer.
Most models utilize a framework comprising a ranking
model, a generation model, or a combination of both. The
ranking model is usually optimized as follows:
Lranker = −
es(q,p)
es(q,p) + P
pi∈P ∧pi̸=p es(q,pi)
(1)
where p is the target program, and s(q, pi) is the similar-
ity score between the question q and each program pi from
a candidate set P. The score is derived from a lightweight
model like BERT (Devlin et al. 2019). On the other hand, a
generation model employs advanced pre-trained generative
models, such as T5, to generate the target program:
Lgen = −
n
X
t=1
log(probability(pt|p<t; q; r))
(2)
where n is the length of p, and r represents additional infor-
mation like ranking results.
Automatic Program Sampling
The objective of program sampling is to generate valid (ex-
ecutable on KB) programs. We break this process into two
crucial steps: template collection and step-wise grounding.
Template collection Taking a SPARQL query as an ex-
ample, if we replace the entities and relations within it
with variables (e.g., ent0, rel0, ent1), the resulting struc-
tural form is referred to as a “template”. By employing auto-
mated algorithms, we can generate a diverse set of templates
to cover various question types that users may encounter in
real-world scenarios. Compared to annotating programs for
a large number of questions, the cost of collecting a handful
of templates is negligible.
Step-wise grounding After obtaining a collection of di-
verse program templates, the next step is to perform entity
and relation grounding. Leveraging the querying mechanism
of SPARQL, we can directly treat the variables as query ob-
jects. However, directly executing the query with multiple
variables can result in long execution times or errors, par-
ticularly when dealing with large-scale knowledge bases. To
address this challenge, we introduce a “step-wise ground-
ing” approach, where we iteratively determine the values
of variables. Through empirical assessment, we note that
this strategy efficiently narrows down the search space while
maintaining diversity, ultimately enabling the derivation of a
substantial number of programs. We give a specific example
in Appendix A to illustrate this process.
Low-Resource Program Translation
As illustrated in Figure 2, conventional approaches often uti-
lized language models to directly convert questions into pro-
grams via in-context learning. However, given that LLMs
are primarily trained on natural language and lack specific
training on programs, we argue that translating programs
into natural language questions is a more efficient and in-
tuitive approach, especially under the low-resource setting.
In this paper, we consider the LLM as a program trans-
lator that converts a program ps
i into its corresponding nat-
ural language question qs
i . The prompt is composed of (1)
an instruction Inst to guide the model in transforming pro-
grams into natural language questions. (2) a few seed pairs
of golden programs and questions {(pf
1, qf
1 ), ..., (pf
N, qf
N)}
as demonstrations, where N denotes a N-shot setting, and
N = 0 represents the zero-shot setting. Note that when con-
structing seed pairs, we should prioritize selecting diverse
programs to cover a wide range of question types. Overall,
the translation process can be formulated as:
qs
i ←Translator(Inst; (pf
1, qf
1 ), ..., (pf
N, qf
N); ps
i)
(3)
For detailed prompts, please refer to Appendix B.
Execution-Guided Self Training
After generating a synthetic dataset using the aforemen-
tioned steps for training lightweight models, a potential is-
sue still remains – the distribution discrepancy between syn-
thetic and real-world questions. This discrepancy primarily
arises from the limited overlap of entities and relations. Ex-
isting literature emphasizes that distribution shifts can have a
substantial impact on the model’s performance. For instance,
a model trained on the GrailQA dataset might achieve only
around 65% performance compared to being trained directly
on the WebQSP (Gu et al. 2021). Therefore, in this paper, we
propose using execution-guided self-training (EGST) to ad-
dress this issue. Taking into account the ease of collecting
user questions in real-world scenarios, we apply the self-
training method to harness the information from these unla-
beled user questions. Moreover, we introduce the utilization
of execution results from structured queries as feedback in-
formation, substantially enhancing the purity of the training
samples.

Figure 2: A comparison between FlexKBQA and prior methods. (a): Prior approaches enable LLMs to directly ground the
question to the knowledge base through in-context learning capabilities. (b): An illustration of FlexKBQA’s innovative design:
(1) Automatic Program Sampling module generates diverse and executable programs. (2) Low-Resource Program Translation
module synthesizes high-quality data pairs. (3) Execution-Guided Self-Training module addresses distribution shift. (4) Inherent
Reasoning module boosts the pipeline by leveraging inherent knowledge within LLMs.
Specifically, the entire training process follows a teacher-
student iterative training approach shown in Algorithm 1.
Firstly, we train a teacher model using the synthetic data
generated by the LLM. Subsequently, in each iteration, the
teacher model generates pseudo programs for unlabeled real
user questions, which undergo an execution-guided filter-
ing mechanism to remove noisy data and obtain a cleaner
training dataset. This filtered dataset, alongside the synthetic
data, is employed to train the student model, which serves as
the teacher model for the subsequent iteration. This iterative
process continues until convergence is achieved.
For the execution-guided filtering mechanism, we employ
the following filtering rules during each iteration (more de-
tails and explorations in Appendix C and H):
• Error Filtering: we remove those data pairs where the
predicted SPARQL queries either result in execution er-
rors or fail to retrieve answers.
• Semantic Filtering: we employ an off-the-shelf pre-
trained sentence-transformer (Reimers and Gurevych
2019) to calculate the semantic textual similarity be-
tween natural language questions and the relations in pre-
dicted programs, and filter out those data pairs with low
similarity.
• Inherent Reasoning Filtering: We exclude samples whose
pseudo answers do not align with the outcomes of Inher-
ent Reasoning. Further details are provided in the next
section.
Inherent Reasoning Augmentation
A widely accepted view is that LLMs encode knowledge in
their parameters, allowing them to answer complex ques-
tions and directly respond to user queries. We refer this
approach as Inherent Reasoning (IR). However, compared
to transforming user questions into executable programs on
KBs, Inherent Reasoning lacks interpretability and could
Algorithm 1: Execution-Guided Self Training Procedure
Input: Unlabeled user questions Du = {(qu
i )} ;
A few labeled question-program pairs Df = {(qf
i , pf
i )};
Synthetic pairs from LLM Ds = {(qs
i , ps
i)};
Initial model parameters θini
Output: Model parameter θfinal
1: Fine-tune teacher model θtea on synthetic data and
small labeled data Ds ∪Df from θini
2: while not converged do
3:
//Generate pseudo-label for user questions
pu
i ←f(qu
i ; θtea)
4:
//Execution-guided filtering
{(quf
i , puf
i )} ←Filter(KB, {(qu
i , pu
i )})
5:
//Fine-tune student model θstu on all data
D = {(qs
i , ps
i)} ∪{(qf
i , pf
i )} ∪{(quf
i , puf
i )}
6:
//Update the teacher model
θtea ←θstu
7: end while
8: θfinal ←θtea
exhibit limited effectiveness when dealing with domain-
specific KBs. Thus, in this paper, we employ Inherent Rea-
soning as a data augmentation technique. It primarily oper-
ates in two stages. (1) In the execution-guided self-training
stage, after annotating pseudo programs and obtaining an-
swers for real user questions, we select samples where the
answers align with those generated through Inherent Rea-
soning. By combining Inherent Reasoning with execution-
guided filtering, we can obtain a training dataset with re-
duced noise. (2) Inherent Reasoning can serve as a comple-
mentary approach to semantic parsing. When the semantic
parsing method fails to retrieve an answer (e.g. cannot enu-

Dataset
KB
Questions
Program Type
GrailQA
Freebase
64,331
S-expression
WebQSP
Freebase
4,737
SPARQL
KQA Pro
Wikidata
117,970
SPARQL
Table 1: Dataset Statistics
merate ranking candidates or the predicted programs result
in execution errors), we resort to using results from Inherent
Reasoning as the final answers for the initially unanswerable
questions. We believe that the integration of Inherent Rea-
soning and the semantic parsing approach holds significant
value in the development of more accurate and interpretable
KBQA systems. Please refer Appendix B for more details.
In summary, with the aforementioned core components,
FlexKBQA can achieve the following dimensions of flexi-
bility: (1) Data Efficient: FlexKBQA requires only a small
number of question-program pairs as prompts. (2) Domain-
Agnostic: FlexKBQA is applicable to diverse knowledge
bases, and alleviates common distribution shifting issues. (3)
Deployable: Utilizing a lightweight model allows for cost-
effective deployment compared to closed-source LLMs and
enables seamless integration of domain-specific knowledge
through fine-tuning.
Experimental Setup
Datasets
We conduct experiments on datasets from different KB and
of diverse program types (statistics in Table 1).
GrailQA (Gu et al. 2021) dataset is a large-scale dataset
for knowledge base question answering that contains 64,331
question-logical form pairs. It has a broad coverage and
many unique canonical logical forms. GrailQA introduces
three levels of generalization for KBQA: i.i.d., composi-
tional and zero-shot. This dataset has attracted substantial
research interest in recent years.
WebQSP (Yih et al. 2016) is another widely recognized
KBQA dataset. The questions in this dataset are extracted
from Google query logs, making them reflective of user
preferences in real-world scenarios. It also offers SPARQL
annotations that can be executed directly on Freebase. The
main objective of this dataset is to evaluate the generaliza-
tion capability in an i.i.d. setting, as the training and testing
data share common entities and relations.
KQA Pro (Cao et al. 2022a) consists of around 120,000 di-
verse natural language questions that require various reason-
ing capabilities, such as multi-hop inference, attribute com-
parison, and set operations. KQA Pro is constructed based
on a sub-knowledge base from Wikidata and does not as-
sume an entity linking stage. Therefore, it requires models
to memorize entities and relations, making it a more strong
and challenging i.i.d task.
Underlying Model and Baselines
Note that FlexKBQA is model-agnostic. Considering per-
formance and reproducibility, we choose a well performing
RnG-KBQA (Ye et al. 2022b) as the underlying model for
GrailQA and WebQSP. For KQA Pro, we select the BART-
SPARQL (Cao et al. 2022a) model.
For baselines, we mainly evaluate FlexKBQA against
Pangu (Gu, Deng, and Su 2023) and KB-BINDER (Li et al.
2023a). Both of them leverage the potent large language
model Codex for in-context learning. Note that because
the few-shot KBQA is a relatively novel task, our baseline
choices are limited to these two methods. Since there are no
available experimental results for Pangu and KB-BINDER
on KQA Pro, we also re-implement an in-context learning
model called LLM-ICL as an alternative for evaluation. We
also provide the supervised results of several representative
models for comparison. We provide detailed descriptions of
these models in Appendix D.
Implementation Details
In experiments, we consider the original training dataset
as the unlabeled real user questions. During the “step-wise
grounding” stage, we not only employ random sampling but
also gather the set of entities present in unlabeled user ques-
tions. These entities are then used as “topic entities” for con-
structing SPARQL queries. After removing duplicates, we
obtain 6,184 synthetic pairs on Freebase and 5,017 on Wiki-
data. For a fair comparison, we use the same off-the-shelf
entity linkers as Pangu (Gu, Deng, and Su 2023). And the
LLM we utilize for program translation is gpt-3.5-turbo2.
More details can be found in Appendix E.
Results
Main Results
The results are presented in Table 2, 3 and 4. Compared to
other baselines that also target the few-shot KBQA scenario,
FlexKBQA demonstrates significant superiority. On the test
set of GrailQA , it achieved an impressive Exact Match (EM)
score of 62.8 and an F1 score of 69.4 with only 25 anno-
tated samples, outperforming the previous state-of-the-art
model Pangu by a significant margin of 6.7 points in terms
of F1 score, despite Pangu utilizing more shots. Surprisingly,
FlexKBQA also surpasses several supervised models, such
as ReTraCk, which demand training with tens of thousands
of samples. Since we use RnG-KBQA model as the underly-
ing model of FlexKBQA, it’s interesting to note that FlexK-
BQA attains a remarkable 93% performance relative to the
fully-supervised RnG-KBQA model.
On WebQSP and KQA Pro datasets, FlexKBQA exhibits
a similar trend of remarkable superiority over in-context
learning methods. Specifically, when considering the F1
score, FlexKBQA achieves a significant 6.1-point improve-
ment over Pangu on WebQSP under the 100-shot setting. It
is worth noting that FlexKBQA’s performance on the KQA
Pro dataset shows a gap compared to the best-performing
model. This difference can be attributed to the absence of an
2https://platform.openai.com/docs/models/gpt-3-5

Overall
I.I.D.
Compositional
Zero-shot
Dev Overall
Model
EM
F1
EM
F1
EM
F1
EM
F1
EM
F1
Supervised
QGG (Lan and Jiang 2020)
-
36.7
-
40.5
-
33.0
-
36.6
-
-
BERT+Ranking (Gu et al. 2021)
50.6
58.0
59.9
67.0
45.5
53.9
48.6
55.7
-
-
ReTraCk (Chen et al. 2021b)
58.1
65.3
84.4
87.5
61.5
70.9
44.6
52.5
-
-
RnG-KBQA (Ye et al. 2022b)
68.8
74.4
86.2
89.0
63.8
71.2
63.0
69.2
71.4
76.8
ArcaneQA (Gu and Su 2022)
63.8
73.7
85.6
88.9
65.8
75.3
52.9
66.0
69.5
76.9
DecAF (Yu et al. 2023)
68.4
78.7
84.8
89.9
73.4
81.8
58.6
72.3
-
81.4
Few-Shot
(100 shots)
KB-BINDER (Li et al. 2023a)
50.6
56.0
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Pangu (Gu, Deng, and Su 2023)
53.3
62.7
54.7
62.9
54.5
63.7
52.3
62.2
-
-
Few-Shot
(25 shots)
Fine-Tuning
16.6
21.3
19.0
24.8
17.3
21.8
15.2
19.4
16.4
21.6
FlexKBQA
62.8
69.4
71.3
75.8
59.1
65.4
60.6
68.3
65.5
71.1
-w/o IR
62.8
68.0
71.3
75.3
59.1
64.1
60.6
66.4
65.5
70.6
-w/o EGST
52.4
57.7
56.9
61.8
49.4
54.4
51.7
57.3
57.0
62.1
Zero-Shot
FlexKBQA
61.9
68.9
72.1
77.0
58.4
65.2
58.9
66.9
64.6
70.3
-w/o IR
61.9
67.6
72.1
76.5
58.4
64.1
58.9
65.0
64.6
69.8
-w/o EGST
51.9
57.5
56.1
60.5
49.6
53.7
52.9
57.8
56.4
61.2
Table 2: Results on GrailQA
Model
F1
Supervised
QGG (Lan and Jiang 2020)
74.0
ReTraCk (Chen et al. 2021b)
71.0
CBR (Das et al. 2021)
72.8
Program Transfer (Cao et al. 2022b)
76.5
RnG-KBQA (Ye et al. 2022b)
75.6
DecAF (Yu et al. 2023)
78.8
Few-Shot
(100 shots)
Fine-Tuning
25.6
KB-BINDER (Li et al. 2023a)
53.2
Pangu (Gu, Deng, and Su 2023)
54.5
FlexKBQA
60.6
-w/o IR
58.2
-w/o EGST
51.1
Zero-Shot
FlexKBQA
46.2
-w/o IR
45.7
-w/o EGST
33.4
Table 3: Results on WebQSP
entity linking stage in KQA Pro. As a result, if the relations
or entities in the test set were not present during training,
FlexKBQA is more prone to producing semantic correct but
unexecutable programs.
We also conduct experiments under a more challenging
zero-shot setting, assuming no available annotated samples
at all. This scenario has been rarely explored in previous
research. We observe that, although the performance is be-
hind the level achieved in the few-shot scenario, results on
GrailQA show significant potential of our method. And we
believe that this direction is worth further exploration.
EGST and IR
According to Tables 2, 3, and 4, FlexKBQA trained using
synthetic data only demonstrates comparable performance
when compared to previous in-context learning-based meth-
Model
Accuracy
Supervised
EmbedKGQA (Saxena et al. 2020)
28.36
RGCN (Schlichtkrull et al. 2018)
35.07
RNN SPARQL (Cao et al. 2022a)
41.98
BART+SPARQL (Cao et al. 2022a)
89.68
Few-Shot
(100 shots)
Fine-Tuning
22.45
LLM-ICL
31.75
FlexKBQA
46.83
-w/o IR
33.32
-w/o EGST
23.10
Zero-Shot
FlexKBQA
33.28
-w/o IR
11.11
-w/o EGST
8.24
Table 4: Results on KQA Pro
ods. The experimental results clearly illustrate the signif-
icant contribution of EGST to the model’s performance.
It resulted in a substantial increase of 10.3 and 7.1 in F1
score on GrailQA and WebQSP, respectively, and a notable
10.2 increase in accuracy on KQA Pro. These findings pro-
vide strong evidence of the effectiveness of EGST in miti-
gating the impact of distribution shift. Inherent Reasoning
can be regarded as an effective and flexible enhancement
method that leverages the inherent knowledge of large mod-
els. On the GrailQA and WebQSP datasets, Inherent Rea-
soning leads to a F1 score improvement of 1.4 (EM score
remains unchanged as it focuses solely on the consistency
of structural queries) and 2.4, respectively. Remarkably, on
the KQA Pro dataset, Inherent Reasoning achieves a accu-
racy increase of 13.5. This is because the absence of the en-
tity linking stage results in numerous SPARQL execution
errors. However, LLM was able to provide accurate answers
directly in such cases.
In conclusion, FlexKBQA achieves superior performance
compared to previous few-shot KBQA systems. Moreover,

Question I
What type of art leonardo da vinci do?
Pangu
(JOIN (R visual art.visual artist.associated periods or movements) m.04lg6) (%)
FlexKBQA
(JOIN (R visual art.visual artist.art forms) m.04lg6) (!)
Synthetic Data Pair
What type of art did andy warhol create?
(JOIN (R visual art.visual artist.art forms) m.0kc6)
Question II
What airport do you fly into to get to destin fl?
Pangu
(JOIN (R travel.travel destination.tourist attractions) m.0rp8x) (%)
FlexKBQA w/o EGST
(JOIN (R travel.travel destination.how to get here) m.0rp8x) (%)
FlexKBQA
(JOIN (R location.location.nearby airports) m.0rp8x) (!)
Pseudo Labeled Pair
What airport is closer to downtown houston?
(JOIN (R location.location.nearby airports) m.03l2n) (!)
Table 5: Two typical questions from the test set of WebQSP that FlexKBQA succeeds while Pangu fails. The incorrect relations
are marked as red, while the correct relations are marked as green.
Figure 3: Results beyond few-shot setting. FlexKBQA con-
sistently performs better with more annotated data.
on certain datasets, it demonstrates competitive results when
compared to supervised models. We claim that the superior-
ity two main reasons. Firstly, it benefits from a large amount
of synthetic data compared to in-context learning, leading
to better convergence with respect to data distribution. Sec-
ondly, the innovative EGST and IR approaches equip FlexK-
BQA with the capability to harness unlabeled real user ques-
tions and leverage the inherent prowess of LLMs. These
unique features distinguish FlexKBQA from other methods.
Beyond Few-Shot KBQA
In this section, we delve into its efficacy beyond the few-
shot scenario. As demonstrated in Figure 3, with an increase
in the number of samples, the model pretrained on our syn-
thetic data consistently performs better. Even when there are
1000 real samples available, it still maintains an 8-point ad-
vantage over models trained solely on real samples. This ob-
servation underscores that our approach is not only applica-
ble to few-shot scenarios but can also serve as a valuable
data augmentation technique.
Ablation and Case Studies
In Figure 4, we delve into an ablation study to gauge the im-
pact of EGST. We can observe that with each iteration, the
model’s performance steadily enhances, eventually converg-
ing around the 6th epoch. The underlying reason, illustrated
Figure 4: Variation of model performances and the error rate
of pseudo-labeled programs with EGST Iterations.
by the green line, is the diminishing error rate of pseudo pro-
grams. We also conduct ablation experiments regarding syn-
thetic data and the number of in-context learning samples in
Appendix F and G.
To better showcase the advantages of FlexKBQA, we con-
duct a comparison between FlexKBQA and Pangu, a state-
of-the-art model. In Table 5, Question I illustrates a non-
i.i.d scenario, where the relation involved in the question
is not present in in-context examples. Consequently, Pangu
struggles to answer correctly. However, due to FlexKBQA’s
inclusion of the relevant relation in its synthetic data, it
manages to generate the correct answer. In an ideal situa-
tion where the synthetic data coverage is extensive enough,
non-i.i.d scenarios like this could be eradicated. Question II
demonstrates the impact of EGST. By utilizing information
from a correctly pseudo-labeled user question, the model can
successfully answer similar but ambiguous or more complex
questions in the test set.
Conclusion and Future Work
In conclusion, this paper presented FlexKBQA, a framework
that harnesses the power of LLMs as program translators
and their inherent reasoning ability for KBQA tasks. Exten-
sive experiments on diverse datasets showcase the effective-
ness of FlexKBQA under the few-shot setting, surpassing all
baseline methods and even approaching the performance of
supervised models. Furthermore, we are pioneers in explor-

ing zero-shot KBQA setting. FlexKBQA represents a signif-
icant advancement in the integration of large and lightweight
models, offering three-fold flexibilities: data annotation, de-
ployment, and being domain agnostic. Future research can
explore the broader applications of this framework in more
natural language understanding and reasoning tasks.
References
Berant, J.; Chou, A.; Frostig, R.; and Liang, P. 2013. Se-
mantic parsing on freebase from question-answer pairs. In
Proceedings of the 2013 conference on empirical methods in
natural language processing, 1533–1544.
Cao, S.; Shi, J.; Pan, L.; Nie, L.; Xiang, Y.; Hou, L.; Li, J.;
He, B.; and Zhang, H. 2022a. KQA Pro: A Dataset with Ex-
plicit Compositional Programs for Complex Question An-
swering over Knowledge Base. In Proceedings of the 60th
Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Lin-
guistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), 6101–6119.
Cao, S.; Shi, J.; Yao, Z.; Lv, X.; Yu, J.; Hou, L.; Li, J.; Liu,
Z.; and Xiao, J. 2022b. Program transfer for answering com-
plex questions over knowledge bases. In Proceedings of the
60th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), 8128–8140.
Chen, M.; Tworek, J.; Jun, H.; Yuan, Q.; de Oliveira Pinto,
H. P.; Kaplan, J.; Edwards, H.; Burda, Y.; Joseph, N.; Brock-
man, G.; Ray, A.; Puri, R.; Krueger, G.; Petrov, M.; Khlaaf,
H.; Sastry, G.; Mishkin, P.; Chan, B.; Gray, S.; Ryder, N.;
Pavlov, M.; Power, A.; Kaiser, L.; Bavarian, M.; Winter, C.;
Tillet, P.; Such, F. P.; Cummings, D.; Plappert, M.; Chantzis,
F.; Barnes, E.; Herbert-Voss, A.; Guss, W. H.; Nichol, A.;
Paino, A.; Tezak, N.; Tang, J.; Babuschkin, I.; Balaji, S.;
Jain, S.; Saunders, W.; Hesse, C.; Carr, A. N.; Leike, J.;
Achiam, J.; Misra, V.; Morikawa, E.; Radford, A.; Knight,
M.; Brundage, M.; Murati, M.; Mayer, K.; Welinder, P.; Mc-
Grew, B.; Amodei, D.; McCandlish, S.; Sutskever, I.; and
Zaremba, W. 2021a.
Evaluating Large Language Models
Trained on Code. arXiv:2107.03374.
Chen, S.; Liu, Q.; Yu, Z.; Lin, C.-Y.; Lou, J.-G.; and Jiang,
F. 2021b. ReTraCk: A flexible and efficient framework for
knowledge base question answering. In Proceedings of the
59th annual meeting of the association for computational
linguistics and the 11th international joint conference on
natural language processing: system demonstrations, 325–
336.
Cheng, Z.; Kasai, J.; and Yu, T. 2023.
Batch Prompt-
ing: Efficient Inference with Large Language Model APIs.
arXiv:2301.08721.
Cheng, Z.; Xie, T.; Shi, P.; Li, C.; Nadkarni, R.; Hu,
Y.; Xiong, C.; Radev, D.; Ostendorf, M.; Zettlemoyer, L.;
Smith, N. A.; and Yu, T. 2023. Binding Language Models
in Symbolic Languages. arXiv:2210.02875.
Das, R.; Zaheer, M.; Thai, D.; Godbole, A.; Perez, E.; Lee,
J. Y.; Tan, L.; Polymenakos, L.; and McCallum, A. 2021.
Case-based Reasoning for Natural Language Queries over
Knowledge Bases.
In Proceedings of the 2021 Confer-
ence on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Process-
ing, 9594–9611.
Devlin, J.; Chang, M.-W.; Lee, K.; and Toutanova, K. 2019.
BERT: Pre-training of Deep Bidirectional Transformers for
Language Understanding. In Proceedings of the 2019 Con-
ference of the North American Chapter of the Association
for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technolo-
gies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers), 4171–4186. Min-
neapolis, Minnesota: Association for Computational Lin-
guistics.
Gao, T.; Han, X.; Zhu, H.; Liu, Z.; Li, P.; Sun, M.; and Zhou,
J. 2019. FewRel 2.0: Towards More Challenging Few-Shot
Relation Classification. In Proceedings of the 2019 Confer-
ence on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing
and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural Lan-
guage Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP), 6250–6255.
Gu, Y.; Deng, X.; and Su, Y. 2023. Don’t Generate, Dis-
criminate: A Proposal for Grounding Language Models to
Real-World Environments. arXiv:2212.09736.
Gu, Y.; Kase, S.; Vanni, M.; Sadler, B.; Liang, P.; Yan, X.;
and Su, Y. 2021. Beyond iid: three levels of generalization
for question answering on knowledge bases. In Proceedings
of the Web Conference 2021, 3477–3488.
Gu, Y.; Pahuja, V.; Cheng, G.; and Su, Y. 2022. Knowledge
Base Question Answering: A Semantic Parsing Perspective.
arXiv:2209.04994.
Gu, Y.; and Su, Y. 2022. ArcaneQA: Dynamic Program In-
duction and Contextualized Encoding for Knowledge Base
Question Answering.
In Proceedings of the 29th Inter-
national Conference on Computational Linguistics, 1718–
1731.
Hinton, G.; Vinyals, O.; and Dean, J. 2015. Distilling the
Knowledge in a Neural Network. arXiv:1503.02531.
Lan, Y.; He, G.; Jiang, J.; Jiang, J.; Zhao, W. X.; and
Wen, J.-R. 2021. A Survey on Complex Knowledge Base
Question Answering: Methods, Challenges and Solutions.
arXiv:2105.11644.
Lan, Y.; and Jiang, J. 2020. Query Graph Generation for
Answering Multi-hop Complex Questions from Knowledge
Bases. In Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the
Association for Computational Linguistics, 969–974.
Li, B. Z.; Min, S.; Iyer, S.; Mehdad, Y.; and tau Yih, W.
2020.
Efficient One-Pass End-to-End Entity Linking for
Questions. arXiv:2010.02413.
Li, T.; Ma, X.; Zhuang, A.; Gu, Y.; Su, Y.; and Chen, W.
2023a. Few-shot In-context Learning for Knowledge Base
Question Answering. arXiv:2305.01750.
Li, X.; Li, Z.; Zhang, Z.; Liu, N.; Yuan, H.; Zhang, W.; Liu,
Z.; and Wang, J. 2022. Effective few-shot named entity link-
ing by meta-learning. In 2022 IEEE 38th International Con-
ference on Data Engineering (ICDE), 178–191. IEEE.
Li, Z.; Li, X.; Duan, Z.; Dong, B.; Liu, N.; and Wang,
J. 2023b. Toward a Unified Framework for Unsupervised
Complex Tabular Reasoning.
In 2023 IEEE 39th Inter-
national Conference on Data Engineering (ICDE), 1691–
1704. IEEE.
Meng, Y.; Huang, J.; Zhang, Y.; and Han, J. 2022. Gener-
ating Training Data with Language Models: Towards Zero-
Shot Language Understanding. arXiv:2202.04538.

Ni, A.; Iyer, S.; Radev, D.; Stoyanov, V.; Yih, W.-t.; Wang,
S.; and Lin, X. V. 2023. Lever: Learning to verify language-
to-code generation with execution. In International Confer-
ence on Machine Learning, 26106–26128. PMLR.
OpenAI. 2023. GPT-4 Technical Report. arXiv:2303.08774.
Reimers, N.; and Gurevych, I. 2019.
Sentence-BERT:
Sentence Embeddings using Siamese BERT-Networks.
arXiv:1908.10084.
Rosenbaum, A.; Soltan, S.; Hamza, W.; Saffari, A.; Da-
monte, M.; and Groves, I. 2022a.
CLASP: Few-Shot
Cross-Lingual Data Augmentation for Semantic Parsing.
arXiv:2210.07074.
Rosenbaum, A.; Soltan, S.; Hamza, W.; Versley, Y.; and
Boese, M. 2022b. LINGUIST: Language Model Instruction
Tuning to Generate Annotated Utterances for Intent Classi-
fication and Slot Tagging. arXiv:2209.09900.
Schick, T.; and Sch¨utze, H. 2021. Generating Datasets with
Pretrained Language Models. arXiv:2104.07540.
Schlichtkrull, M.; Kipf, T. N.; Bloem, P.; Van Den Berg,
R.; Titov, I.; and Welling, M. 2018.
Modeling relational
data with graph convolutional networks. In The Semantic
Web: 15th International Conference, ESWC 2018, Herak-
lion, Crete, Greece, June 3–7, 2018, Proceedings 15, 593–
607. Springer.
Shu, Y.; Yu, Z.; Li, Y.; Karlsson, B. F.; Ma, T.; Qu, Y.;
and Lin, C.-Y. 2022. TIARA: Multi-grained Retrieval for
Robust Question Answering over Large Knowledge Bases.
arXiv:2210.12925.
Singh, I.; Blukis, V.; Mousavian, A.; Goyal, A.; Xu, D.;
Tremblay, J.; Fox, D.; Thomason, J.; and Garg, A. 2023.
Progprompt: Generating situated robot task plans using large
language models. In 2023 IEEE International Conference
on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), 11523–11530. IEEE.
Su, Y.; Sun, H.; Sadler, B.; Srivatsa, M.; G¨ur, I.; Yan, Z.;
and Yan, X. 2016. On generating characteristic-rich question
sets for qa evaluation. In Proceedings of the 2016 Confer-
ence on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Process-
ing, 562–572.
Wei, J.; Wang, X.; Schuurmans, D.; Bosma, M.; Xia, F.;
Chi, E.; Le, Q. V.; Zhou, D.; et al. 2022.
Chain-of-
thought prompting elicits reasoning in large language mod-
els. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
35: 24824–24837.
Ye, J.; Gao, J.; Li, Q.; Xu, H.; Feng, J.; Wu, Z.; Yu, T.; and
Kong, L. 2022a. ZeroGen: Efficient Zero-shot Learning via
Dataset Generation. arXiv:2202.07922.
Ye, J.; Li, C.; Kong, L.; and Yu, T. 2023.
Generating
Data for Symbolic Language with Large Language Models.
arXiv:2305.13917.
Ye, X.; Yavuz, S.; Hashimoto, K.; Zhou, Y.; and Xiong,
C. 2022b. RNG-KBQA: Generation Augmented Iterative
Ranking for Knowledge Base Question Answering. In Pro-
ceedings of the 60th Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), 6032–
6043.
Yih, W.-t.; Richardson, M.; Meek, C.; Chang, M.-W.; and
Suh, J. 2016.
The value of semantic parse labeling for
knowledge base question answering. In Proceedings of the
54th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics (Volume 2: Short Papers), 201–206.
Yu, D.; Zhang, S.; Ng, P.; Zhu, H.; Li, A. H.; Wang, J.; Hu,
Y.; Wang, W.; Wang, Z.; and Xiang, B. 2023. DecAF: Joint
Decoding of Answers and Logical Forms for Question An-
swering over Knowledge Bases. arXiv:2210.00063.

Appendix
In this supplementary material, we furnish the additional de-
tails that were left out in the main text. The appendices are
organized as follows:
• Appendix A: Automatic Program Sampling
• Appendix B: Example Prompts and Inherent Reasoning
• Appendix C: Execution-Guided Filtering
• Appendix D: Underlying models and Baselines
• Appendix E: Implementation Details
• Appendix F: Synthetic vs. Real Data
• Appendix G: Number of In-context Examples
• Appendix H: Progressive Execution-guided Self-training
A. Automatic Program Sampling
A.1 Template Collection
We replace the entities and relations within programs with
variables (e.g., ent0, rel0, ent1) to get program templates.
Different program templates capture the fundamental logic
of various question types, so it’s essential to have a diverse
range of templates. In practical settings, people can cus-
tomize and design their own templates based on specific
business scenarios.
In the experiments, we construct templates using the pro-
grams included in the few-shot annotated samples. Here is
an example of a SPARQL template:
SELECT ( ?x0 AS ?value ) WHERE
{ ?x0 :type.object.type ?ent1 .
VALUES ?x1 { ?ent0 }
?x0 ?rel0 ?x1 .
FILTER ( ?x0 ! = ?x1 ) }
For S-expressions, we first convert them into SPARQL
queries3 and then follow the same procedure.
A.2 Step-wise Program Grounding
We directly treat the variables in a template as query ob-
jects. The aforementioned example can be rephrased as the
following query:
SELECT ?rel0 ?ent0 ?ent1 WHERE
{ ?x0 :type.object.type ?ent1 .
VALUES ?x1 { ?ent0 }
?x0 ?rel0 ?x1 .
FILTER ( ?x0 ! = ?x1 ) }
Then we introduce a “step-wise grounding” approach,
where we iteratively determine the values of variables. In
the given example, a plausible order for establishing variable
values could be ent0 →rel0 →ent1. Once these variables
are grounded to specific values, we can populate them into
the original template to form an executable program.
3https://github.com/dki-lab/ArcaneQA/issues/3
B. Example Prompts and Inherent Reasoning
We show examples of prompts in Listing 1, 2, and 3 for
GrailQA, WebQSP and KQA Pro, respectively. The prompt
design is straightforward. More efficient prompting tech-
niques like batch prompting (Cheng, Kasai, and Yu 2023)
remain to be explored.
For Inherent Reasoning, we also employ the in-context
learning approach, but the prompts are directly constructed
from question-answer pairs, which can be easily collected
from the web. For convenience, we utilize question-answer
pairs from the dataset.
C. Execution-Guided Filtering
For semantic filtering, we employ an off-the-shelf pre-
trained
sentence-transformer
named
all-MiniLM-L6-v2
(Reimers and Gurevych 2019), which maps sentences to a
384-dimensional dense vector space. We use the pre-trained
model4 to calculate the semantic textual similarity between
natural language questions and the relations in predicted
programs. The semantic similarity is caculated as the cosine
similarity of the embedding vectors, and we average the sim-
ilarity scores if there are multiple relations in one predicted
program. Empirically, we set the threshold of 0.2 to filter out
those data pairs with similarity below the threshold. The se-
mantic filtering technique can effectively filter out data pairs
whose predicted relations are irrelevant to the natural lan-
guage questions.
For inherent filtering, once the surface name of the pre-
dicted answer entity derived from the program appear in the
direct response provided by the large language model, we
consider this pseudo-label program valid. This approach can
enhance the purity of pseudo-labeled training data.
Additionally, We also remove data pairs where the sur-
face names of retrieved entities cannot be obtained through
the sparql endpoint to Freebase, as these entities are quite
uncommon and usually lead to erroneous results.
D. Underlying models and Baselines
D.1 Underlying models
We select advanced models that have demonstrated out-
standing performance on KBQA datasets. Specifically, for
GrailQA and WebQSP, we choose the RnG-KBQA (Ye et al.
2022b) model. For KQA Pro, we select the BART-SPARQL
(Cao et al. 2022a) model. They also demonstrate good re-
producibility.
RnG-KBQA follows a ranking-then-generate approach. It
begins with searching for a collection of candidate programs
on the graph, using the topic entity mentioned in the ques-
tion. These candidates are then ranked by similarity scores
outputted by a ranker model. Finally, a pretrained generation
model, serving as the generator consumes both the ques-
tion and the top-k candidate programs to generate the fi-
nal answer. In experiments, we initialize the ranker with the
BERT-base-uncased model, and the generator with T5-base.
BART-SPARQL, in contrast, is an end-to-end generation
4https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-
L6-v2

model that directly produces the corresponding SPARQL
query given a question. It is worth noting that the pre-trained
BART model is forced to have the capability to memorize
the relations and entities present in the KB. As a result, the
BART-SPARQL model is more sensitive to unseen questions
compared to RnG-KBQA. We also use the BART-base for
this model.
D.2 Baselines
Pangu is a recently emerged state-of-the-art model. It pro-
poses using LLMs for discrimination rather than generation
in grounded language understanding, combining symbolic
search with neural scoring in a novel way. It incrementally
constructs plans in a step-wise fashion to handle large search
spaces. At each step, it extends existing plans into new valid
candidates based on the environment. This allows it to guar-
antee the grammaticality and faithfulness of the proposed
plans.
KB-BINDER enables few-shot learning for KBQA using
LLMs through two key stages: Draft Generation, where
given a question, an LLM generates a preliminary “draft”
logical form by imitating few examples that capture seman-
tic relationships but may contain mistakes; and Knowledge
Base Binding, where entities and relations in the draft are
grounded to the target KB using string matching and simi-
larity search to produce refined, executable candidate logical
forms.
Fine-Tuning means that we train the model only on the
few-shot data (e.g., 100 shots). This baseline is designed to
demonstrate how existing models’ performance significantly
decreases when faced with insufficient data, thereby high-
lighting the superiority of our framework.
LLM-ICL is an in-context learning-based baseline we im-
plement for KQA Pro. As there are no experimental results
of Pangu and KB-BINDER on KQA Pro, we use LLM-ICL
as an alternative. Since KQA Pro models do not include an
entity linking stage, LLM-ICL directly generates SPARQL
queries without further grounding stage, ensuring a fair com-
parison.
We also presented the performance of several supervised
models (e.g., ReTraCk (Chen et al. 2021b), DecAF (Yu et al.
2023)) to demonstrate that FlexKBQA maintains usability
while offering flexibility.
E. Implementation Details
On GrailQA and WebQSP datasets, we use the underly-
ing model RnG-KBQA (Ye et al. 2022b). Empirically, we
adopted the non-bootstrap ranking strategy in the RnG-
KBQA. All other settings remain consistent with the orig-
inal setting. Experiments can be conducted with a single
GeForce RTX 3090 graphics card.
For the entity linking, we adopt the same setting as our
baseline models. On GrailQA, we use the entity linking
results from TIARA (Shu et al. 2022). On WebQSP, we
adopted the entity linking results from ELQ (Li et al. 2020).
For the second stage of inherent reasoning augmenta-
tion, we resort to using the responses from LLM as the fi-
nal answers for the initially unanswerable questions. Specif-
ically, we perform the Named Entity Recognition (NER)
Setting
EM
F1
Real Data
61.4
68.2
Sythetic Data
32.7
35.5
Real Program, Synthetic Question
50.9
56.3
Table 6: Discrepancy between Synthetic and Real Data
techniques on the textual responses and take the recognized
entities as the final answers. The NER system we use is also
consistent with the NER system in RnG-KBQA.
F. Synthetic vs. Real Data
To better demonstrate the gap between the synthetic data
generated by our framework and the real data, as well as to
explore the reasons behind this discrepancy, we conducted
this supplementary experiment. We compare the model per-
formance when trained using diverse data sources:
• Synthetic Data: we produce around 1,000 synthetic data
using our automatic program sampling and low-resource
program translation method. We use those synthetic data
to train the RnG-KBQA ranker model and evaluate the
model performance on the WebQSP test set.
• Real Data: we randomly sample the same amount of
training data directly from the original WebQSP dataset.
• Real Program, Synthetic Question: we leverage the
real programs of training samples in the “real data” set-
ting, and use the low-resource program translation to
generate the natural language questions.
The model performances under these three settings are
demonstrated in Table 6. The performance of the model
trained by synthetic data is significantly worse than that
trained by real data. This is largely due to the fact that when
generating synthetic data, the programs we sample are diffi-
cult to form similar distribution as the test set, such as con-
taining consistent relations. This scenario is more significant
on the strong i.i.d. WebQSP dataset. In the “real program,
synthetic question” setting, the model performance is just
slightly weaker than the model trained by real data. This im-
plies that LLMs have a strong ability to translate symbolic
language into natural language.
G. Number of In-context Examples
We conduct an ablation study concerning the number of in-
context learning examples in our framework. We conduct the
experiment on the GrailQA dataset and evaluate the model
performance using the GrailQA dev set and test set. To re-
duce interference and focus on the impact of the number of
in-context examples on data generation, we do not perform
the inherent reasoning augmentation in this ablation experi-
ment. The F1 scores are shown in Table 7. We can observe
that the number of examples has little impact on the final
performance of the model, as the knowledge about program
languages (e.g. SPARQL, S-expression) in the examples has
already been largely incorporated into the parameters of the
LLMs.

# Exmaples
Model
F1(dev)
F1(test)
10
FlexKBQA
-w/o IR
70.04
66.61
-w/o EGST
61.78
57.70
25
FlexKBQA
-w/o IR
70.23
67.19
-w/o EGST
62.10
57.74
60
FlexKBQA
-w/o IR
70.29
67.20
-w/o EGST
62.54
58.71
Table 7: Number of In-context Examples
Figure 5: Model improvement in the PEGST process
H. Progressive Execution-Guided
Self-Training
During the execution-guided filtering phase, we have mul-
tiple filtering strategies available. Exploring effective ways
to utilize them is still worth investigating. Here we also ex-
plore a strategy called Progressive Execution-Guided Self-
Training (PEGST), a slightly distinct variant of EGST. In
PEGST, we employed different filtering strategies in differ-
ent stages:
• Stage I: Error Filtering
• Stage II: Semantic Filtering
• Stage III: We remove data pairs where the surface
names of retrieved entities cannot be obtained through
the SPARQL endpoint to Freebase.
We conduct an experiment of PEGST on the WebQSP
dataset with other settings remaining the same. From the in-
creasing trend of the F1 score in Figure 5, we can notice
that in PEGST, a substantial enhancement in the model’s
capabilities can be achieved once a criterion for filtering
data is altered. However, within a single stage, the increase
in the model’s capacity is relatively minor. PEGST can be
considered as a process of injecting diverse knowledge into
the model in distinct phases. In experiments, PEGST can
achieve a slight advantage over EGST, but it requires more
self-training iterations and a longer period to execute. Con-
sequently, we opted for employing the EGST approach in
the main body of our study.

Listing 1. Example Prompt for GrailQA
### Convert the s-expressions to natural language questions.
# s-expression:(AND medicine.routed_drug (JOIN medicine.routed_drug.
marketed_formulations Oxybutynin chloride 5 extended release film coated tablet))
# question:oxybutynin chloride 5 extended release film coated tablet is the
ingredients of what routed drug?
# s-expression:(ARGMAX food.food food.food.energy)
# question:when it comes to the food that has the most energy per 100g what is the
name of it?
# s-expression:(AND music.genre (JOIN (R music.genre.parent_genre) (JOIN music.genre.
albums confessions tour)))
# question:the albums confessions tour is part of what parent genre of a musical genre
?
# s-expression:(AND architecture.architect (JOIN architecture.architect.
architectural_style (JOIN (R architecture.architect.architectural_style) Josef
Fanta)))
# question:which architect has a similar architectural style to josef fanta?
# s-expression:(AND architecture.building (lt architecture.building.floors 9ˆˆhttp://
www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema#integer))
# question:which building has less than 9 floors?
# s-expression:(AND comic_books.comic_book_series (JOIN (R comic_books.
comic_book_genre.comic_book_series_in_this_genre) (JOIN (R comic_books.
comic_book_story.genre) Case of the Namesake Murders)))
# question:case of the namesake murders is the same genre as what comic book series?
# s-expression:(AND film.director (JOIN (R media_common.quotation.author) It is an
open question whether any behavior based on fear of eternal punishment can be
regarded as ethical or should be regarded as merely cowardly.))
# question:what is the name of the author who wrote it is an open question whether any
behavior based on fear of eternal punishment can be regarded as ethical or should
be regarded as merely cowardly.?
# s-expression:(AND meteorology.beaufort_wind_force (ge meteorology.
beaufort_wind_force.wave_height 7.0ˆˆhttp://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema#float))
# question:for waves higher than 7.0 what is the beaufort window force?
# s-expression:(AND book.short_story (JOIN book.short_story.characters (JOIN book.
book_character.appears_in_stories Doing Clarence a Bit of Good)))
# question:what short story has a character who also is in doing clarence a bit of
good?
# s-expression:(AND education.school_category (AND (JOIN (R education.
educational_institution.school_type) Chiang Kai Shek College) (JOIN education.
school_category.schools_of_this_kind Sacred Heart High School (Roseville, Michigan
))))
# question:chiang kai shek college and sacred heart high school (roseville, michigan)
are in what category of school?
# s-expression:(ARGMIN food.bottled_water food.bottled_water.nitrate_content)
# question:the bottled water that has the least amount of nitrates?
......
# s-expression:

Listing 2. Example Prompt for WebQSP
### Convert the s-expressions to natural language questions.
# s-expression:(JOIN (R location.location.containedby) Auburn University)
# question:where is university of auburn?
# s-expression:(JOIN (R government.political_party_tenure.politician) (JOIN (R
government.political_party.politicians_in_this_party) New Democratic Party))
# question:who founded the new democratic party?
# s-expression:(ARGMAX (JOIN (R location.location.contains) China) topic_server.
population_number)
# question:where do most chinese live?
# s-expression:(JOIN (R film.performance.actor) (AND (JOIN film.performance.character
Dorothy Gale) (JOIN (R film.film.starring) The Wizard of Oz)))
# question:who played dorothy in the film wizard of oz?
# s-expression:(AND (JOIN common.topic.notable_types College/University) (JOIN (R
education.education.institution) (JOIN (R people.person.education) Jerry Rice)))
# question:what college did jerry rice attend?
# s-expression:(AND (JOIN common.topic.notable_types City/Town/Village) (JOIN (R
location.location.contains) Oakland County))
# question:what cities are in oakland county michigan?
# s-expression:(JOIN (R people.marriage.spouse) (AND (JOIN people.marriage.time_macro
2015ˆˆhttp://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema#date) (AND (JOIN people.marriage.
type_of_union Marriage) (JOIN (R people.person.spouse_s) Jane Krakowski))))
# question:who is married to jane krakowski?
# s-expression:(AND (JOIN people.person.gender Female) (JOIN (R people.marriage.spouse
) (ARGMAX (JOIN (R people.person.spouse_s) Robert Downey Jr.) people.marriage.from
)))
# question:who is robert downey jr wife?
# s-expression:(JOIN (R location.religion_percentage.religion) (ARGMAX (JOIN (R
location.statistical_region.religions) United States of America) location.
religion_percentage.percentage))
# question:what is the most practiced religion in the united states?
# s-expression:(ARGMAX (AND (JOIN sports.sports_championship_event.champion Dallas
Cowboys) (JOIN (R sports.sports_team.championships) Dallas Cowboys)) time.event.
end_date)
# question:when was the last dallas cowboys super bowl win?
# s-expression:(ARGMAX (JOIN (R film.performance.film) (JOIN (R film.actor.film)
Brittany Murphy)) film.film.initial_release_date)
# question:what is the last movie brittany murphy made?
# s-expression:(AND (JOIN book.written_work.subjects Evolution) (AND (JOIN common.
topic.notable_types Book) (JOIN (R book.author.works_written) Charles Darwin)))
# question:what book did charles darwin write on evolution?
......
# s-expression:

Listing 3. Example Prompt for KQA Pro
### Convert the sparqls to natural language questions.
# sparql:SELECT DISTINCT ?e WHERE { ?e <pred:instance_of> ?c . ?c <pred:name> "town" .
?e <TOID> ?pv . ?pv <pred:value> "4000000074573917" . ?e <OS_grid_reference> ?
pv_1 . ?pv_1 <pred:value> "SP8778" .
}
# question:Which town has a TOID of 4000000074573917 and has an OS grid reference of
SP8778?
# sparql:SELECT DISTINCT ?pv WHERE { ?e <pred:instance_of> ?c . ?c <pred:name> "human"
. ?e <ISNI> ?pv_1 . ?pv_1 <pred:value> "0000 0001 2136 4821" . ?e <date_of_birth>
?pv .
}
# question:When was the person with ISNI 0000 0001 2136 4821 born?
# sparql:ASK { ?e <pred:name> "Eve Myles" . ?e <official_website> ?pv . ?pv <pred:
value> "http://www.cheechandchong.com" .
}
# question:Is http://www.cheechandchong.com Eve Myles’s official website?
# sparql:SELECT DISTINCT ?p WHERE { ?e_1 <pred:name> "alternative rock" . ?e_2 <pred:
name> "Greg Graffin" . ?e_1 ?p ?e_2 .
}
# question:What has alternative rock in common with Greg Graffin?
# sparql:ASK { ?e <pred:instance_of> ?c . ?c <pred:name> "human" . ?e <ISNI> ?pv_1 . ?
pv_1 <pred:value> "0000 0001 0893 552X" . ?e <name_in_native_language> ?pv . ?pv <
pred:value> "Elias Koteas" .
}
# question:Is Elias Koteas the name in native language of the person with ISNI 0000
0001 0893 552X?
# sparql:SELECT DISTINCT ?qpv WHERE { ?e_1 <pred:name> "Gregg Allman" . ?e_2 <pred:
name> "Cher" . ?e_2 <birth_name> ?pv . ?pv <pred:value> "Cherilyn Sarkisian" . ?
e_1 <spouse> ?e_2 . [ <pred:fact_h> ?e_1 ; <pred:fact_r> <spouse> ; <pred:fact_t>
?e_2 ] <end_time> ?qpv .
}
# question:When did Gregg Allman stop being the spouse of Cher (the one whose birth
name is Cherilyn Sarkisian)?
# sparql:SELECT (COUNT(DISTINCT ?e) AS ?count) WHERE { ?e <pred:instance_of> ?c . ?c <
pred:name> "town" . ?e <postal_code> ?pv . ?pv <pred:value> "VLT" . ?e <area> ?
pv_1 . ?pv_1 <pred:unit> "square mile" . ?pv_1 <pred:value> ?v . FILTER ( ?v <
"530"ˆˆxsd:double ) .
}
# question:How many towns’ postal code is VLT and area is less than 530 square miles?
# sparql:SELECT (COUNT(DISTINCT ?e) AS ?count) WHERE { ?e <pred:instance_of> ?c . ?c <
pred:name> "sovereign state" . ?e <population> ?pv . ?pv <pred:unit> "1" . ?pv <
pred:value> ?v . FILTER ( ?v != "7600000000"ˆˆxsd:double ) .
}
# question:What number of sovereign states have a population not equal to 7600000000?
# sparql:SELECT DISTINCT ?pv WHERE { ?e <pred:name> "63rd Golden Globe Awards" . ?e <
edition_number> ?pv .
}
# question:What is the edition number of the 63rd Golden Globe Awards?
# sparql:ASK { ?e <pred:instance_of> ?c . ?c <pred:name> "film" . ?e <official_website
> ?pv_1 . ?pv_1 <pred:value> "http://www.lovelybones.com" . ?e <duration> ?pv . ?
pv <pred:unit> "minute" . ?pv <pred:value> ?v . FILTER ( ?v > "60"ˆˆxsd:double ) .
}
# question:Does the film, whose official website is http://www.lovelybones.com, have a
duration greater than 60 minutes?
......
# sparql: