Applied Intelligence (2025) 55:1102
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10489-025-06885-5
has arguably played a large role in sparking an immense 
interest in solutions that build on artificial intelligence.
The rapid adoption of LLMs has transformed the fields of 
natural language processing (NLP) and information retrieval 
(IR). Understanding natural language, with its long-range 
dependencies and contextual meanings, as well as human-
like text generation capabilities, allows these models to be 
applied to a wide variety of tasks. For instance, Question 
Answering (QA) is one of the main NLP tasks where a sys­
tem is given a question (in natural language) and is expected 
to generate or extract the correct answer from a given con­
text [1, 2]. There is a rich body of work on using Knowl­
edge Bases (KBs) [3–5] or hybrids [6, 7] for QA, however, 
they all require costly and time-consuming updates to keep 
up-to-date with new facts. On the other hand, LLMs have 
proven to be few-shot learners, meaning that they have 
the ability to perform unseen tasks with only a couple of 
examples [8]. Unfortunately, the benefits of LLMs come at 
the cost of characteristic downsides, which are important to 
consider.
LLMs can hallucinate, generating untruthful or incoher­
ent outputs [9, 10]. They also miss knowledge not present 
1  Introduction
As our world becomes increasingly digital and information 
is more widely available than ever before, technologies that 
enable information retrieval and processing have become 
indispensable in both our personal and professional lives. 
The advent of Large Language Models (LLMs) has had a 
great impact, by changing the way many internet users inter­
act with information, through models like ChatGPT1. This 
1  https://chatgpt.com/
Currently working at Chan Zuckerberg Initiative: jtomczak@
chanzuckerberg.com.
	
 Jakub M. Tomczak
jmk.tomczak@gmail.com
Jasper Linders
jasper.linders@gmail.com
1	
Department of Mathematics and Computer Science, 
Eindhoven University of Technology, De Zaale, 
Eindhoven 5600 MB, the Netherlands
Abstract
Large Language Models (LLMs) and Knowledge Graphs (KGs) offer a promising approach to robust and explainable 
Question Answering (QA). While LLMs excel at natural language understanding, they suffer from knowledge gaps and 
hallucinations. KGs provide structured knowledge but lack natural language interaction. Ideally, an AI system should 
be both robust to missing facts as well as easy to communicate with. This paper proposes such a system that integrates 
LLMs and KGs without requiring training, ensuring adaptability across different KGs with minimal human effort. The 
resulting approach can be classified as a specific form of a Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) with a KG, thus, it 
is dubbed Knowledge Graph-extended Retrieval Augmented Generation (KG-RAG). It includes a question decomposi­
tion module to enhance multi-hop information retrieval and answer explainability. Using In-Context Learning (ICL) and 
Chain-of-Thought (CoT) prompting, it generates explicit reasoning chains processed separately to improve truthfulness. 
Experiments on the MetaQA benchmark show increased accuracy for multi-hop questions, though with a slight trade-off 
in single-hop performance compared to LLM with KG baselines. These findings demonstrate KG-RAG’s potential to 
improve transparency in QA by bridging unstructured language understanding with structured knowledge retrieval.
Keywords  Knowledge graphs · Large language models · Retrieval-augmented generation · Question answering
Received: 14 April 2025 / Accepted: 29 August 2025 / Published online: 19 November 2025
© The Author(s) 2025
Knowledge graph-extended retrieval augmented generation for 
question answering
Jasper Linders1 · Jakub M. Tomczak1
1 3

J. Linders, J. M. Tomczak
during training, leading to knowledge cutoff, and cannot 
guarantee that certain training data is remembered [11]. 
Because of their massive size and data requirements, LLMs 
are expensive to train, deploy, and maintain [12]. Thus, 
smaller models or those needing only fine-tuning can be 
more practical for many use cases.
By contrast, Knowledge Graphs (KGs) store information 
explicitly as entities and relationships, allowing symbolic 
reasoning and accurate answers [10]. Even if a direct link 
between entities is missing, inferences can be drawn from 
their shared associations. KGs may also recall underrepre­
sented knowledge better than LLMs [11]. However, they are 
costly to build, specialized to a domain, and typically require 
querying languages rather than natural language [13]. They 
also do not easily generalize to other domains [10].
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) [14] addresses 
LLMs’ lack of external knowledge by augmenting them 
with a text document database. Text documents are split into 
chunks, embedded, and stored in a vector database; the most 
similar chunks to an input query are retrieved and added to 
a prompt so the LLM can generate an answer based on this 
external information [15]. However, relying on unstructured 
text can miss comprehensive entity data and even introduce 
distracting misinformation [15].
To overcome these limitations, RAGs can utilize KGs 
[16–19]. The resulting system integrates structured data from 
Knowledge Graphs in a RAG, enabling precise retrieval and 
complex reasoning. For example, KAPING [20] performs 
Knowledge Graph Question Answering (KGQA) without 
requiring any training. When training is needed for KG-
enhanced LLMs, issues arise such as limited training data, 
domain specificity, and the need for frequent retraining as 
KGs evolve [21, 22]. In short, while RAG enhances LLMs 
by providing explainable, natural language outputs, incor­
porating structured Knowledge Graphs may offer improved 
reasoning and domain adaptability.
In this paper, we propose the Knowledge Graph-extended 
Retrieval Augmented Generation (KG-RAG) system, which 
combines the reliability of Retrieval Augmented Genera­
tion (RAG) with the high precision of Knowledge Graphs 
(KGs) and operates without any training or fine-tuning. We 
focus on the task of Knowledge Graph Question Answer­
ing; although this focus is narrow, our findings may have 
broader implications. For instance, certain insights could be 
applied to the development of other systems that utilize KG-
based information retrieval, such as chatbots. The primary 
objective of this work is to investigate how LLMs can be 
enhanced through the integration of KGs. Since the term 
“enhance” can encompass various improvements, we define 
it as follows. First, we aim to enable LLMs to be more read­
ily applied across different domains requiring specialized or 
proprietary knowledge. Second, we seek to improve answer 
explainability, thereby assisting end users in validating 
LLM outputs. Eventually, we aim to answer the following 
research questions: 
1.	 How can Large Language Models be enhanced with 
Knowledge Graphs without requiring any training?
2.	 How can answer explainability be improved with the 
use of Knowledge Graph-extended Retrieval Aug­
mented Generation systems?
As a result, the contribution of the paper is threefold:
	
●
We present an overview of SOTA QA methods that com­
bine KGs and LLMs.
	
●
We propose a new method for QA that combines a KG-
extended RAG for retrieving facts with CoT for decom­
posing questions into sub-questions, and eventually an 
LLM for answering sub-questions and synthesizing 
them into the final answer. The method is explainable 
due to its question decomposition module and using 
KGs instead of a vector database. In our approach, we do 
not carry out any form of training of any of the modules.
	
●
We provide an empirical validation of our approach on 
a well-known benchmark for QA, MetaQA. We indicate 
the importance of the question decomposition and the 
use of KG by analyzing results for 1-hop, 2-hop, and 
3-hop questions.
2  Related work
2.1  Overview
Knowledge Graphs  Knowledge Graphs (KGs) are struc­
tured databases that model real-world entities and their 
relationships as graphs, which makes them highly amena­
ble to machine processing. They enable efficient querying 
to retrieve all entities related to a given entity, a task that 
would be significantly more challenging with unstructured 
text databases. Complex queries are executed using special­
ized languages such as SPARQL [23]. As noted in recent 
research, “the success of KGs can largely be attributed to 
their ability to provide factual information about entities 
with high accuracy” [11]. Typically, the information in KGs 
is stored as triples, i.e. (subject, relation, object).
Large Language Models  Large Language Models (LLMs) 
learn natural language patterns from extensive text data, 
enabling various NLP tasks such as text generation and 
sentiment classification. Their emergence was enabled by 
the Transformer architecture, introduced in Attention Is All 
You Need [24], which efficiently models sequential data via 
1 3
1102 
Page 2 of 19

Knowledge graph-extended retrieval augmented generation for question answering
attention mechanisms. Scaling these models—by increasing 
compute, dataset size, and parameter count—yields per­
formance improvements following a power law [25], with 
LLMs typically comprising hundreds of millions to hun­
dreds of billions of parameters.
LLMs generate text in an autoregressive manner. Given 
a sequence x1:t, the model produces a probability distri­
bution p(xt+1|x1:t) = softmax(z/T) over its vocabulary, 
where z are the raw logits and T is a temperature parameter 
that controls randomness. Instead of selecting tokens via 
simple argmax, more sophisticated sampling methods are 
employed (see Section 3.4) to generate coherent and diverse 
output consistent with the input context [26].
In-Context Learning & Chain-of-Thought  In-Context Learn­
ing (ICL) improves LLM performance by providing few-shot 
examples instead of zero-shot queries. This method boosts 
task performance through prompt engineering without 
altering model parameters [27]. It is often combined with 
Chain-of-Thought (CoT) that can significantly enhance 
performance without modifying the model’s parameters or 
incurring the high cost of fine-tuning [28]. A CoT prompt 
instructs the model to generate intermediate reasoning steps 
that culminate in the final answer, rather than directly map­
ping a query to an answer [28]. This approach naturally 
decomposes complex queries into simpler steps, yielding 
more interpretable results.
Knowledge Graph Question Answering  Knowledge Graph 
Question Answering (KGQA) is the task of answering ques­
tions using a specific knowledge graph (KG). Benchmarks 
such as Mintaka [29], WebQuestionsSP [30], and MetaQA 
[31] provide datasets where each row includes a question, 
its associated entity/entities, and the answer entity/enti­
ties, along with the corresponding KG (provided as a file of 
triples or accessible via an API). In these benchmarks, the 
question entity is pre-identified (avoiding the need for entity 
matching or linking), and performance is evaluated using 
the binary Hit@1 metric.
KGQA systems are typically classified into three catego­
ries [20]:
	
●
Neural Semantic Parsing-Based Methods: These map 
a question to a KG query (e.g., in SPARQL), reducing 
the search space between question and answer entities. 
Although effective [30], they require labor-intensive se­
mantic parse labels.
	
●
Differentiable KG-Based Methods: These employ dif­
ferentiable representations of the KG (using sparse 
matrices for subjects, objects, and relations) to perform 
query execution in the embedding space. They enable 
end-to-end training on question-answer pairs [32, 33], 
but necessitate ample training data and may not general­
ize across different KGs.
	
●
Information Retrieval-Based Methods: These com­
bine KGs with LLMs by retrieving relevant facts—
which are then injected into the prompt—to generate 
answers [20]. Although they leverage off-the-shelf 
components, they often require fine-tuning on KG-
specific datasets [22].
Knowledge Graph-extended Retrieval Augmented Gen­
eration  Information retrieval-based KGQA (IR-KGQA) 
systems differ from neural semantic parsing and differ­
entiable KG methods by delegating part of the reasoning 
over triples to the LLM. The process is split into retriev­
ing candidate triples and then having the LLM reason 
over them to formulate an answer, whereas the other 
methods map directly from the question to the answer 
entities [32, 34].
KG-RAG is defined as an IR-KGQA system that employs 
a similarity-based retrieval mechanism using off-the-shelf 
text embedding models, akin to the original RAG system 
[14]. In KG-RAG (exemplified by the KAPING system 
[20]), candidate triples are retrieved up to N hops from 
the question entity/entities, verbalized, and embedded 
alongside the question. Their similarity is computed via 
dot or cosine product, and the Top-K similar triples are 
passed to an answer generation LLM, which then outputs 
the answer.
2.2  State-of-the-art
Recent advances in question answering have seen the devel­
opment of several state-of-the-art methods that leverage a 
diverse array of Large Language Models alongside innova­
tive baseline strategies. For instance, one method employs 
multiple scales of models such as T5, T0, OPT, and GPT-3, 
while experimenting with baselines ranging from no knowl­
edge to generated knowledge on datasets like WebQSP [30] 
and Mintaka [29]. Another approach expands this explora­
tion by integrating Llama-2, Flan-T5, and ChatGPT, and 
introducing baselines that utilize triple-form knowledge and 
alternative KG-to-Text techniques, evaluated on datasets 
that include WebQSP, MetaQA [31], and even a Chinese 
benchmark, ZJQA [22]. Additionally, methods centered on 
ChatGPT are further compared with systems like StructGPT 
and KB-BINDER across varying complexities of MetaQA 
and WebQSP. The overview of the SOTA methods is pre­
sented in Table 1.
1 3
Page 3 of 19 
1102

J. Linders, J. M. Tomczak
top-K candidates based on total probability; (iii) selected 
relation paths are transformed into free-form text using a 
fine-tuned LLM. This verbalized output, together with the 
question, is fed to a QA LLM via a prompt template.
For training, the hop number and relation path classifiers, 
as well as the KG-to-Text LLM, are tuned on each bench­
mark. Due to the lack of relation path labels and subgraph-
text pairs in most benchmarks, the authors employ various 
data construction techniques, limiting the model’s general­
izability across domains and KGs.
As detailed in Table 1, evaluations were carried out using 
QA LLM, baselines (no knowledge, triple-form knowledge 
and two standard KG-to-Text models), and benchmark data­
sets, compared with models from [20] and [33] on WebQ 
[41] and WebQSP [30] using the Hit@1 metric. The main 
results show that RRA significantly outperforms rival mod­
els, achieving an improvement of 1–8% over triple-form 
text and 1–5% over the best standard KG-to-Text model. 
Moreover, RRA is about 100× more likely to produce a cor­
rect answer when the no-knowledge baseline fails, confirm­
ing the added value of IR-based KGQA models over vanilla 
LLMs.
2.2.3  Keqing
Keqing, proposed in [21], is the third SOTA model that is 
positioned as an alternative to SQL-based retrieval sys­
tems. Its key innovation is a question decomposition mod­
ule that uses a fine-tuned LLM to break a question into 
sub-questions. These subquestions are matched to pre­
defined templates via cosine similarity, with each template 
linked to specific KG relation paths. Candidate triples are 
retrieved based on these relation paths, and sub-questions 
are answered sequentially–the answer to one sub-question 
seeds the next. The triples obtained are verbalized and pro­
cessed through a prompt template by a Quality Assurance 
LLM, ultimately generating a final answer that reflects the 
model’s reasoning chain.
In this approach, only the question decomposition LLM 
is trained using LoRA [45], which adds only a small frac­
tion of trainable weights. However, the construction of 
sub-question templates and the acquisition of relation path 
labels are not clearly detailed, which may limit the system’s 
scalability.
According to Table 1, Keqing outperforms vanilla 
ChatGPT and two rival models, achieving Hit@1 scores 
of 98.4% to 99.9% on the MetaQA benchmark and supe­
rior performance on the WebQSP benchmark. Its abil­
ity to clearly explain its reasoning through sub-question 
chains further underscores its contribution to answer 
explainability.
2.2.1  KAPING
KAPING [20] is one of the best IR-KGQA models that 
requires no training. For example, due to the large number 
of candidate triples–27% of entities in WebQSP [30] have 
more than 1000 triples–a text embedding-based selection 
mechanism is employed, typically using cosine similarity 
[44], instead of appending all triples directly to the prompt. 
KAPING outperforms many baselines presented in Table 1 
in terms of Hit@1, especially those with smaller LLMs, sug­
gesting that external knowledge compensates for the limited 
parameter space. Notably, using 2-hop triples degrades per­
formance, so only 1-hop triples are selected; when retrieval 
fails to fetch relevant triples, performance drops below a 
no-knowledge baseline. An additional finding is that triple-
form text outperforms free-form text for retrieval, as con­
verting triples to free-form via a KG-to-Text model often 
leads to semantic incoherence, and using free-form text in 
prompts does not improve answer generation.
2.2.2  Retrieve-rewrite-answer
Motivated by KAPING’s limitations, the Retrieve-Rewrite-
Answer (RRA) architecture was developed for KGQA [22]. 
Unlike KAPING, which overlooked the impact of triple for­
matting, RRA introduces a novel triple verbalization mod­
ule, among other changes. Specifically, question entities 
are extracted from annotated datasets (with entity matching 
deferred). The retrieval process consists of three steps: (i) 
a hop number is predicted via a classification task on the 
question embedding; (ii) relation paths–sequences of KG 
relationships–are predicted by sampling and selecting the 
Table 1  Comparison of the question answering LLMs, baselines and 
benchmark datasets that were used for the different models
Model
QA LMs
Baselines
Datasets
KAPING 
[20]
T5 (0.8B, 3B, 
11B) T0 (3B, 
11B) OPT (2.7B, 
6.7B) GPT-3 
(6.7B, 175B)
No knowledge 
Random knowl­
edge Popular 
knowledge Gener­
ated knowledge
WebQSP 
(w/ 2 KGs) 
Mintaka
Retrieve-
Rewrite-
Answer 
[22]
Llama-2 (7B, 
13B) T5 (0.8B, 
3B, 11B) Flan-T5 
(80M, 3B, 11B) 
T0 (3B, 11B) 
ChatGPT
No knowledge 
Triple-form 
knowledge 2x 
Alternative KG-
to-Text 2x Rival 
model
WebQSP 
WebQ 
MetaQA 
ZJQA 
(Chinese)
Keqing 
[21]
ChatGPT
ChatGPT Struct­
GPT KB-BINDER
WebQSP 
MetaQA-1hop 
MetaQA-2hop 
MetaQA-3hop
The full set of QA LMs is as follows: T0 [35], T5 [36], Flan-T5 [37], 
OPT [38], GPT-3 [8], ChatGPT, AlexaTM [39], and Llama-2 [40]. The 
full set of datasets is as follows: WebQuestions [41], WebQSP [30], 
ComplexWebQuestions [42], MetaQA [31], Mintaka [29], LC-QuAD 
[43], and ZJQA [22]
1 3
1102 
Page 4 of 19

Knowledge graph-extended retrieval augmented generation for question answering
	
●
Qualitative analysis of reasoning chain clarity and logi­
cal soundness, as judged by a human evaluator on a 
sample of results.
3.1.1  Current state-of-the-art: a research gap
After KAPING was introduced as the first KG-Augmented 
LLM for KGQA, RRA [22] and Keqing [21] followed, each 
employing different triple retrieval methods. Although all 
three use an LLM for question answering, KAPING relies 
on an untrained similarity-based retriever, while RRA and 
Keqing develop trainable retrieval modules, improving 
performance at the cost of significant engineering. Specifi­
cally, RRA trains separate modules (hop number classifier, 
relation path classifier, and KG-to-Text LLM) for each 
benchmark, requiring two custom training datasets (one for 
questions with relation path labels and one for triples with 
free-form text labels). The need for KG-specific techniques 
limits generalizability and raises concerns about the extra 
labor required when no Q&A dataset is available. Keqing 
fine-tunes an LLM for question decomposition to enhance 
answer interpretability and triple retrieval. This approach 
also demands a training dataset with sub-question templates 
and relation path labels, though the methods for construct­
ing these remain unclear. Consequently, it is debatable 
whether the performance gains justify the additional engi­
neering effort.
In summary, these shortcomings reveal a gap for models 
that are both as generalizable as KAPING and as explainable 
as Keqing. KAPING’s training-free design allows minimal 
human intervention across diverse KGs and domains, even 
in the absence of benchmark datasets. For this reason, we 
propose an improvement to the KAPING model by intro­
ducing a question decomposition module.
3.2  Our approach
KAPING, a SOTA method combinining KGs and LLMs, 
outperforms many zero-shot baselines. However, its retrieval 
process, a vital process for accurate answer generation, can 
benefit from reducing irrelevant triple inclusion [20]. There­
fore, we build on top of the KAPING model and propose to 
enhance it by integrating a question decomposition module 
to improve triple retrieval, answer accuracy, and explain­
ability while maintaining application generalizability.
The proposed question decomposition module decom­
poses complex, multi-hop questions into simpler sub-ques­
tions. This allows the similarity-based retriever to focus on 
smaller, manageable pieces of information, thereby improv­
ing retrieval precision and yielding a more interpretable 
reasoning chain. Unlike conventional Chain-of-Thought 
prompting, which may induce hallucinated reasoning [46], 
3  Methodology
3.1  Problem statement
Let G be a knowledge graph, defined as a set of triples of the 
form (s, r, o) where:
	
●
Each triple (s, r, o) ∈G ⊆E × R × E represents a fact;
	
●
s, o ∈E are entities from the set of all entities E;
	
●
r ∈R is a relation from the set of all relations R.
We assume that the following objects are given:
	
●
A question q that can be answered using facts from G
	
●
The question entity/entities part of that question eq ∈E
Moreover, let us introduce the following variables:
	
●
a denotes a natural language answer that can be derived 
from the facts in G;
	
●
c is a reasoning chain in natural language, explaining the 
logical steps from q and eq to a
Our objective is to develop a function f that maps given 
object to both an answer and the reasoning chain, namely:
f : q × eq × G →(a, c).
Ideally, the function f should fulfill the following 
requirement:
	
●
It should have high answer accuracy, e.g., as evaluated 
by the Hit@1 metric;
	
●
For each answer a generated by the function f, the rea­
soning chain c should provide a clear logical explana­
tion of how the answer was derived, so that it is more 
easily verifiable by the user;
	
●
The function f should operate without training or fi­
netuning on specific Knowledge Graphs, using only 
In-Context Learning examples. The Knowledge Graphs 
must include sufficient amounts of natural language 
information, as the system relies on natural language-
based methods.
The degree to which the function f achieves these require­
ments is evaluated using both quantitative and qualitative 
methods, based on experiments with a KGQA benchmark, 
namely:
	
●
Quantitative evaluation of answer accuracy, based on 
the Hit@1 metric.
1 3
Page 5 of 19 
1102

J. Linders, J. M. Tomczak
3.4  System components
3.4.1  Question decomposition
Overview  The question decomposition module splits a com­
plex question into simpler sub-questions while generating 
an explicit reasoning chain, thereby enhancing both triple 
retrieval and answer explainability (Section 3.2). Inspired 
by Chain-of-Thought and In-Context Learning techniques 
[46], the module uses manually constructed ICL examples 
from the benchmark (Section 4.1). The prompt is designed 
to first elicit the reasoning chain (CoT) followed by the sub-
questions, aligning with the natural text-based reasoning of 
LLMs.
Inputs and Outputs  As illustrated in Fig. 1, the module 
takes a natural language question as input and outputs a 
string containing the reasoning chain and sub-questions. 
This output is post-processed to extract the CoT and store 
the sub-questions in a list.
Depending on the complexity of a question, it requires 
answering multiple sub-questions. For instance, for the 
question: ”When were the films written by David Morlet 
released”, it is first needed to query about films directed by 
David Morlet, and then, for each film, a release date must be 
indicated. A few examples of such question decomposition is 
provided in Table 2.
Techniques  The decomposition prompt instructs the LLM to 
decide if a question requires decomposition. If so, it gener­
ates a CoT followed by sub-questions, strictly adhering to a 
specified format and avoiding irrelevant content. In-context 
examples–covering three question types from the MetaQA 
benchmark–guide the LLM, with the stop token “<END>” 
marking completion.
Implementation Details  Here, we use a 4-bit quantized 
version of Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.2 [40, 47], originally 
a 7.24B-parameter model that outperforms Llama 2 and 
Llama 1 in reasoning, mathematics, and code generation. 
The quantized model, sized at 4.37 GB2, is compatible with 
consumer-grade hardware (e.g., NVIDIA RTX 3060 12GB3). 
Fast inference is achieved using the llama.cpp package4, 
and prompts are designed with LM Studio5.
2  ​h​t​t​p​s​:​/​/​h​u​g​g​i​n​g​f​a​c​e​.​c​o​/​T​h​e​B​l​o​k​e​/​M​i​s​t​r​a​l​-​7​B​-​I​n​s​t​r​u​c​t​-​v​0​.​2​-​G​G​U​F
3  ​h​t​t​p​s​:​/​/​w​w​w​.​m​s​i​.​c​o​m​/​G​r​a​p​h​i​c​s​-​C​a​r​d​/​G​e​F​o​r​c​e​-​R​T​X​-​3​0​6​0​-​V​E​N​T​U​
S​-​2​X​-​1​2​G​-​O​C
4  ​h​t​t​p​s​:​/​/​g​i​t​h​u​b​.​c​o​m​/​g​g​e​r​g​a​n​o​v​/​l​l​a​m​a​.​c​p​p
5  https://lmstudio.ai/
decomposing the question forces the LLM to independently 
resolve each sub-question, ensuring fidelity to the stated 
reasoning. Our question decomposition module uses manu­
ally curated in-context learning examples for the KGQA 
benchmark, obviating the need for additional training and 
minimizing human labor. As a result, our approach aligns 
well with the goals of enhanced generalizability and answer 
explainability while potentially outperforming KAPING 
for multi-hop questions. The following section details the 
overall system architecture and the roles of its individual 
components.
3.3  System architecture
Our system comprises multiple components, each execut­
ing a specific role in answering KG-based questions. The 
overall process involves four primary steps, with the first 
two being non-sequential: 
1.	 Question Decomposition: The decomposition module 
splits the question into sub-questions. For simple que­
ries, it avoids unnecessary decomposition.
2.	 Candidate Triple Retrieval: Given the question entity, 
the system retrieves all triples up to N hops from the 
KG. Each triple is verbalized into text for subsequent 
selection via a sentence embedding model.
3.	 Sub-Question Answering: This sequential step 
answers each sub-question using the candidate triples. 
The process involves embedding the candidate triples 
to form a vector database, selecting the Top-K similar 
triples for the sub-question, and reformulating subse­
quent sub-questions based on prior sub-answers.
4.	 Answer Synthesis: Finally, the system synthesizes the 
final answer from the sub-questions and their corre­
sponding answers. The output also includes the chain-
of-thought from the decomposition stage, enhancing 
interpretability.
Figure 1 illustrates the system architecture, highlighting 
the data structures and interactions between components. 
The diagram shows how the question reformulation mod­
ule, which processes all previous sub-answers, enables the 
sequential resolution of sub-questions until the final answer 
is generated by the answer synthesis module.
Different components utilize distinct data sources and 
models. The candidate triple retriever directly accesses 
the KG, while the similarity-based triple selection lever­
ages an off-the-shelf sentence embedding model trained 
on question-answer pairs. The remaining modules—the 
decomposition module, sub-answer generator, question 
reformulator, and final answer generator—are implemented 
using a LLM.
1 3
1102 
Page 6 of 19

Knowledge graph-extended retrieval augmented generation for question answering
Inference parameters (see Table 3) include a max 
tokens limit (256) to prevent runaway generation, a tem­
perature of 0.3 to reduce randomness, and top-k (40) and 
min-p (0.05) settings to ensure controlled token sampling 
[48].
Table 2  Examples of question decomposition for various types of 
questions
Type
Question
Sub-Questions
1-hop
Can you describe movie 
The Place Promised in 
Our Early Days in a few 
words?
1. What is the synopsis 
or plot summary of the 
movie ”The Place Prom­
ised in Our Early Days”?
2-hop
When were the films 
written by David Morlet 
released?
1. Which films were writ­
ten by David Morlet? 2. 
What is the release date 
for each of these films?
3-hop
What are the languages 
spoken in the movies 
starred by Presenting 
Lily Mars actors?
1. Who are the actors in 
the movie ”Presenting 
Lily Mars”?, 2. What films 
have these actors acted in? 
3. In which languages are 
these films spoken?
Table 3  The inference parameters that were used for the question 
decomposition LLM
Parameter
Value
Max Tokens
256
Temperature
0.3
Min-p
0.05
Top-k
40
Fig. 1  The architecture of the proposed system. An example of a 2-hop 
question is included, to give an idea of the data structures that are 
involved in the end-to-end process. The green color indicates process­
ing with the KG; the red block shows the embedding model and the 
blue modules utilize an LLM
 
1 3
Page 7 of 19 
1102

J. Linders, J. M. Tomczak
Implementation Details  The MetaQA benchmark provides 
the KG as a text file with one triple per row. This file is pre-
processed into a compressed KG with indexed entities and 
relationships to streamline retrieval and minimize memory 
usage. Each triple is embedded using a sentence embedding 
model (introduced in Section 3.4.3), forming a dictionary of 
embeddings that enhances retrieval efficiency by avoiding 
redundant computations. Retrieval is performed bidirec­
tionally up to 3 hops, i.e., N ∈{1, 2, 3}.
3.4.3  Sub-question answering
Overview  Once the question is decomposed into sub-ques­
tions and candidate triples are retrieved for the given entity/
entities, the sub-question answering process begins. Itera­
tively, the sub-question and candidate triples are embedded 
using a sentence embedding model, and the top-K similar 
triples are selected to generate a sub-answer via an LLM. 
This sub-answer is then used to reformulate subsequent sub-
questions if needed (see Fig. 1), continuing until all sub-
questions are answered.
Inputs and Outputs  Inputs include candidate triples (a list 
of strings, pre-embedded from the MetaQA KG) and a list 
of sub-questions. The output comprises two lists of strings: 
one containing the sub-answers and another with the refor­
mulated sub-questions, both of which contribute to the final 
answer synthesis.
Techniques  The process employs similarity-based retrieval 
where both the sub-question and candidate triples are 
embedded with the same model, and their dot-product 
similarity is computed. The top-K triples are then passed 
to a zero-shot LLM answer generator along with the sub-
question. Unlike Keqing’s multiple-choice approach [21] 
(Section 2.2.3), this method allows the LLM to reason 
over the context. A zero-shot LLM also performs question 
reformulation.
Implementation Details  The similarity-based triple selec­
tion uses the multi-qa-mpnet-base-dot-v16 model 
from the sentence_transformers7 package, which 
embeds text into 768-dimensional vectors. Similarity is 
computed as the dot product between these vectors, and 
the model is run locally on the GPU. Both the sub-question 
answering and question reformulation LLMs use param­
eters from Table 3 with minor adjustments: the sub-question 
answering LLM employs a repeat_penalty of 1.1 to 
mitigate repetitive output, while the reformulation module 
6  ​h​t​t​p​s​:​/​/​h​u​g​g​i​n​g​f​a​c​e​.​c​o​/​s​e​n​t​e​n​c​e​-​t​r​a​n​s​f​o​r​m​e​r​s​/​m​u​l​t​i​-​q​a​-​m​p​n​e​t​-​b​a​s​
e​-​d​o​t​-​v​1
7  https://www.sbert.net/
3.4.2  Candidate triple retrieval
Overview  Candidate triple retrieval collects all triples up 
to N hops from a given question entity in the KG, convert­
ing each triple into a text string of the form (subject, rela­
tion,  object). Although the worst-case complexity is 
exponential in the number of hops—approximately Θ(dN) 
for an undirected KG with average degree d—real-world 
KGs are sparse, making the average or median complexity 
more relevant (Section 4.1). The value of N is treated as a 
hyperparameter.
Inputs and Outputs  This component accepts the question 
entity/entities as a natural language string and retrieves 
candidate triples from the KG. The output is a list of lists, 
where each sub-list corresponds to the candidate triples for 
each hop up to N. Each triple is stored as a formatted text 
string, with underscores replaced by spaces (e.g., “acted_
in” becomes “acted in”).
Techniques  Candidate triple retrieval employs a breadth-
first search strategy. In the MetaQA benchmark, which uses 
a directed KG, retrieval can be unidirectional (consider­
ing only outgoing edges) or bidirectional (including both 
outgoing and incoming edges). For example, as illustrated 
in Fig. 2, unidirectional retrieval from the Inception entity 
would only yield entities like 2010, Christopher Nolan, and 
Tom Hardy, whereas bidirectional retrieval expands the 
search across successive hops. This example underscores 
the impact of retrieval direction on both the candidate set 
and computational load.
Fig. 2  A simple subgraph of triples from MetaQA [31]. As indicated by 
the arrows, this KG is a directed graph, which has implications for can­
didate triple retrieval. If Inception were the entity we were retrieving 
for, each darker tint of gray shows the entities that would be reached 
for a hop deeper
 
1 3
1102 
Page 8 of 19

Knowledge graph-extended retrieval augmented generation for question answering
benchmark with movie-domain questions of varying hop 
counts [31].
Several factors motivated the selection of MetaQA for 
this research. First, its questions are categorized by hop 
count, enabling detailed analysis of multi-hop performance, 
a key area for improvement via question decomposition. 
Second, each question includes an entity label, avoiding the 
complexities of entity linking; many benchmarks, which 
focus on neural semantic parsing for SPARQL query gen­
eration, lack such labels [49]. Third, MetaQA’s simplicity 
and locally processable KG make it ideal for studies with 
limited resources, in contrast to highly complex KGs like 
Wikidata (over 130 GB, 1.57 billion triples, 12,175 relation 
types8).
Data  MetaQA consists of three datasets (1-hop, 2-hop, 
and 3-hop), each split into train, validation, and test sets, 
and further divided into three components: vanilla, NTM 
text data, and audio data [31]. This research utilizes only 
the vanilla data, where the 1-hop dataset contains origi­
nal WikiMovies questions and the 2-hop and 3-hop datas­
ets are generated using predefined templates. Each dataset 
row includes a question, its associated entity, and answer 
entities.
Knowledge Graph  The MetaQA benchmark provides a KG 
as a text file with each row representing a triple. The KG 
comprises 43,234 entities and 9 relation types, with movie 
titles as subjects. Figure 3 illustrates the degree distribu­
tion: most entities have few associated triples (median of 
4), while the long-tailed distribution includes entities with 
up to 4431 triples.
4.2  Experimental design
In this study, we carry out two experiments: 
1.	 The goal of experiment 1 is to find out how the model 
parameters impact performance, in order to find a 
parameter configuration that leads to consistent per­
formance over the different question types. The chosen 
parameter configuration can then be used to compare 
the system to baselines in the second experiment.
2.	 The main goal of the second experiment is to find out 
how different components of the system impact per­
formance and overall behavior. This is achieved by 
comparing the performance of the system with specific 
baselines, which are essentially made up of combina­
tions of system components.
8  ​h​t​t​p​s​:​/​/​w​w​w​.​w​i​k​i​d​a​t​a​.​o​r​g​/​w​i​k​i​/​W​i​k​i​d​a​t​a​:​M​a​i​n​_​P​a​g​e
uses “?” as the stop token to restrict its output to a properly 
reformulated question.
3.4.4  Answer Synthesis
Overview  The final step synthesizes an answer to the origi­
nal question using the generated reasoning chain, sub-
questions, and sub-answers. This output, which includes the 
reasoning chain, provides transparency into the system’s 
decision-making process.
Inputs and Outputs  Inputs comprise the main question, 
reasoning chain, sub-questions (reformulated if applicable), 
and sub-answers—all as strings. The output is a single nat­
ural language string that integrates both the final answer 
and the reasoning chain.
Techniques  A custom zero-shot prompt instructs the LLM 
to formulate the final answer from the provided context. 
The prompt template merges the main question, sub-ques­
tions, and sub-answers, and subsequently incorporates the 
reasoning chain into the final output. This straightforward 
zero-shot approach was preferred over ICL due to the sim­
plicity of the final synthesis task compared to the more com­
plex decomposition step.
Implementation Details  The LLM parameters mirror those 
in Table 3, with the exception of max_tokens, which is 
increased to 512 to accommodate the typically more com­
plex final answers.
4  Experiments
The goal of our experiments is check whether the use­
fulness of a KG in question answering and whether our 
approach, i.e., using an additional question decomposition 
module, results in a better performance. For this purpose, 
we use a widely-used Knowledge Graph Question Answer­
ing (KGQA) benchmark called MetaQA [31]. In order to 
verify whether we achieved our objectives, we assess three 
baselines: a stand-alone LLM, an LLM with an LLM-based 
question-answering module, and an LLM with a KG (i.e., 
KAPING). Eventually, the experimental results are pre­
sented and discussed.
4.1  Dataset
The MetaQA benchmark, introduced in 2017, addresses the 
need for KGQA benchmarks featuring multi-hop questions 
over large-scale KGs, extending the original WikiMovies 
1 3
Page 9 of 19 
1102

J. Linders, J. M. Tomczak
1.	 LLM: Uses only an LLM with a simple zero-shot 
prompt to directly answer the question.
2.	 LLM+QD: Incorporates the question decomposition 
module to split questions and reformulate sub-questions 
before answering with the same zero-shot prompt as the 
LLM baseline.
3.	 LLM+KG: Functions as the full system without the 
question decomposition component, which is equiva­
lent to KAPING [20] by employing candidate triple 
retrieval, top-K triple selection, and the sub-question 
answering module.
Both the full system and the LLM+KG baseline use the 
parameter configuration selected in Section 4.3.1. As in 
Experiment 1, 500 questions are sampled per MetaQA 
dataset using 8 different seeds (0–7) to ensure consistency. 
Performance is quantitatively evaluated using the Hit@1 
metric to determine the impact of different components, and 
results are qualitatively analyzed for error insights and to 
assess accuracy, explainability, and generalizability as out­
lined in Section 3.1.
4.3  Results and discussion
4.3.1  Experiment 1: quantitative analysis
The results of Experiment 1 (Fig. 4) indicate high 
overall performance that decreases with increasing 
4.2.1  Experiment 1: model selection
Experiment 1 investigates the effect of model parameters on 
performance to determine a configuration that yields consis­
tent results across different question types. The parameters 
under examination are the number of hops N for candidate 
triple retrieval (tested with values 1, 2, 3) and the number 
of top triples K selected for each sub-question (tested with 
values 10, 20, 30), consistent with values reported in the 
literature (Section 2).
For each MetaQA test dataset, 100 questions are sampled 
using a fixed seed, and the system is evaluated across all 
parameter combinations. This process is repeated with 10 
different seeds (0–9) to capture performance variability, 
and all LLM components use the same seed for inference to 
ensure reproducibility.
Performance is measured using the Hit@1 metric, which 
checks if the generated answer exactly matches any of the 
label answer entities (after lowercasing and stripping). For 
example, if the label is “Brad Pitt” and the generated answer 
is “Pitt is the actor in question,” the response is deemed 
incorrect. The final score for each dataset sample is the aver­
age Hit@1.
4.2.2  Experiment 2: a comparative analysis with baselines
Experiment 2 serves a purpose of assessing how individual 
system components influence overall performance by com­
paring the full system to three baselines: 
Fig. 3  The distribution of degrees 
(triples per entity) in the MetaQA 
KG. (Note that the distribution is 
long-tailed, so the cut-off at the 
value of 30 is for the purpose of 
visualization)
 
1 3
1102 
Page 10 of 19

Knowledge graph-extended retrieval augmented generation for question answering
When holding the dataset and N constant, increasing K 
(the number of top triples selected) from 10 to 30 shows 
minimal effect on the 1-hop dataset, with slight improve­
ments observed for the 2-hop and 3-hop datasets. Given that 
a higher K is unlikely to reduce performance and is more 
likely to include the necessary triples, K = 30 is chosen.
Considering the trade-offs across datasets, a balanced 
configuration is selected. Since N = 1 is unacceptable 
for 2-hop questions and improved performance on 3-hop 
questions likely requires all candidate triples up to 3 hops, 
N = 3 is deemed the best choice despite a minor reduction 
question complexity, with standard deviations remaining 
low (≤0.063) across samples.
Performance is highest when the parameter N equals 
the actual number of hops in the questions. As expected, 
for the 2-hop dataset, N = 1 yields poor results; however, 
for the 3-hop dataset, performance with N < 3 is unex­
pectedly high due to MetaQA’s question templates–for 
instance, some 3-hop questions (e.g., “Who are the direc­
tors of the films written by the writer of Blue Collar?”) can 
be answered with N = 1 triples. This represents a limitation 
of the MetaQA benchmark.
Fig. 4  MetaQA performance results for experiment 1, over 10 samples of 100 questions for each of the three datasets. The bars show the mean 
Hit@1 for different parameter configurations; the error bars show the standard deviation
 
1 3
Page 11 of 19 
1102

J. Linders, J. M. Tomczak
benefits of KG retrieval for multi-hop questions while also 
enhancing answer explainability.
In summary, our system achieves improved performance 
on multi-hop questions with only a minor loss for 1-hop 
queries compared to the LLM+KG baseline. Although the 
relative and absolute advantage decreases as the number of 
hops increases, these quantitative results, combined with a 
forthcoming qualitative analysis (Section 4.4), support the 
effectiveness of our approach.
4.4  Qualitative analysis
This section examines the model outputs to identify recur­
ring behaviors, strengths, and weaknesses, and to suggest 
directions for future improvements. Given the inherent limi­
tations of a small, quantized LLM, our focus is on common 
patterns rather than isolated errors.
Table 4 lists the generated outputs used in this analy­
sis. First, we present an example output from the MetaQA 
2-hop dataset (Fig. 6). This example demonstrates how the 
system correctly decomposes a question into coherent sub-
questions, substitutes sub-answers appropriately, and syn­
thesizes a final answer that accurately addresses the main 
question while maintaining a logical chain-of-thought.
in 2-hop performance (0.787 ± 0.046). Consequently, the 
optimal parameter configuration for MetaQA is N = 3 and 
K = 30.
4.3.2  Experiment 2: quantitative analysis
The goal of our Experiment 2 is to assess how individual 
components influence the overall performance of the pro­
posed system. To verify that, we assess a zero-shot prompt 
LLM, an LLM with a question decomposition component 
(LLM+QD), an LLM with a knowledge graph (LLM+KG; 
an equivalent approach to KAPING), and our approach. 
Figure 5 presents the performance results for Experiment 2 
across 8 samples of 500 questions per MetaQA dataset, for 
1-hop, 2-hop and 3-hop. First of all, we note that the zero-
shot prompt LLM performs similarly to LLM+QD, indicat­
ing there is no clear gain from having the QD component 
alone. There is a visible advantage of adding a knowledge 
graph component on 1-hop and 2-hop cases. However, there 
is no difference between LLM+KG and the other two base­
lines on 3-hop. Interestingly, adding the QD component to 
LLM+KG, which is our method, allows to achieve a signifi­
cant improvement of the performance in all three cases, and 
outperforming LLM+KG on 2-hop and 3-hop.
Comparing the baselines, the advantage of the KG 
retrieval module is most pronounced for 1-hop questions, 
but diminishes for 2-hop questions and disappears for 3-hop 
questions—likely because complex queries increase the dif­
ficulty of retrieving relevant triples. The integration of ques­
tion decomposition in our system, however, maintains the 
Table 4  The datasets that were analyzed for the qualitative analysis
Dataset
Model
Experiment
Seed
Parameters
MetaQA 1-hop
KG-RAG
1
0
N=3, K=30
MetaQA 2-hop
KG-RAG
1
0
N=3, K=30
MetaQA 3-hop
KG-RAG
1
0
N=3, K=30
Fig. 5  MetaQA performance results 
for experiment 2, over 8 samples of 
500 questions for each of the three 
datasets. The bars show the mean 
Hit@1, and the error bars show the 
standard deviation. The results for 
both the system and the baselines 
are shown
 
1 3
1102 
Page 12 of 19

Knowledge graph-extended retrieval augmented generation for question answering
4.4.2  Question decomposition
By analyzing the distribution of the number of generated 
sub-questions per dataset (Fig. 7), we observe that the 
model generally recognizes the appropriate complexity 
of MetaQA multi-hop questions. For 1-hop questions, the 
model typically avoids decomposition, though ambiguous 
queries (e.g. asking for a movie description) sometimes 
lead to unnecessary sub-questions. For 2-hop and 3-hop 
questions, the model usually generates the expected num­
ber of sub-questions, although there are occasional cases of 
under-decomposition.
4.4.1  A qualitative comparison to the LLM baseline
To further verify the advantage of adding a QD component 
and a KG component in our approach, we compare two que­
ries for which the difference is most profound. In Table 5, 
we indicate that by introducing subquestions, our method is 
capable of providing correct answer while a baseline LLM 
tends to present generic answers. There are a few of such 
cases in the considered dataset. Nevertheless, they clearly 
highlight the importance of combining LLM+QD and 
LLM+KG in comparison to the vanilla LLM.
Fig. 6  An example of the system’s 
intermediate outputs, which lead 
to the final answer. The example 
was taken from the MetaQA 2-hop 
sample that was analyzed for the 
qualitative analysis
 
1 3
Page 13 of 19 
1102

J. Linders, J. M. Tomczak
answers that may exceed token limits or include unwar­
ranted information.
Despite these issues, the generated reasoning chains remain 
logical and coherent, allowing users to trace and verify the 
main answer. Many of the observed errors can be attributed 
to the limitations of the quantized LLM, and it is expected 
that a more sophisticated model or refined prompting strate­
gies (potentially using ICL) could mitigate these problems.
Overall, there are only a few cases for which our 
approach misspelled names, or it did not provide a name in 
the answer. In other words, the Hit@1 metric cannot be nec­
essarily at fault here. We present such examples in Table 6.
In conclusion, while triple selection remains robust 
when question decomposition is successful, the identified 
issues in decomposition, sub-answer generation, and answer 
synthesis indicate clear avenues for future research and 
improvements.
4.4.3  Qualitative performance
Overall, the system effectively distinguishes question com­
plexity, but several systematic errors were identified:
	
●
Over-decomposition: In approximately 16% of 1-hop 
cases, ambiguous questions lead to extra sub-questions, 
resulting in longer, sometimes overcomplicated answers.
	
●
Under-decomposition: For 2-hop and 3-hop datasets, 
the system occasionally fails to generate enough sub-
questions, sometimes producing only a 1-hop and a 
2-hop question instead of the full decomposition.
	
●
Sub-answer Inconsistencies: The LLM sometimes 
produces sub-answers that do not align with the pro­
vided triples, either by overlooking relevant data or by 
incorporating its own external knowledge.
	
●
Final Answer Synthesis: While the final synthesis step 
generally succeeds, it occasionally yields overly long 
No.
Question
Answer
Model
Subquestions
Answer
1
Which person 
directed the 
films acted 
by Gloria 
DeHaven?
Jack Donohue, 
Charles Walters, 
Roy Del Ruth, 
Peter Yates
LLM
N/A
Gloria DeHaven was an actress who appeared in 
numerous films between the 1940s and 1960s. She 
worked with various directors throughout her career. 
Some of the films she starred in include “Thousands 
Cheer” directed by Mack Sandrich, “Anchors Aweigh” 
directed by George Sidney, “Neptune’s Daughter” 
directed by Edward Buzzell, and “It Started with a 
Kiss” directed by George Cukor. It’s important to note 
that she worked with many other directors as well.
Ours
1. What films did Gloria 
DeHaven act in? 2. Who 
was the director of each of 
the following films: sum­
mer holiday, summer stock, 
the yellow cab man, Broad­
way rhythm, irma la douce, 
dedée d’anvers, miranda, 
b.f.’s daughter, and that 
lady in ermine (different 
from the first instance)?
Peter Yates, Charles Walters, and Jack Donohue 
are the directors of the films “Summer Holiday”, 
“Summer Stock”, and “The Yellow Cab Man”, respec­
tively, that Gloria DeHaven acted in.
2
Who appeared 
in the same 
movie with 
Essence 
Atkins?
LL Cool J, 
Gabrielle Union, 
Duane Martin
LLM
N/A
Essence Atkins has appeared in various movies with 
many actors and actresses. Some notable ones include: 
* Boris Kudjoe in “Love & Basketball” (2001) * 
Morris Chestnut in “The Game Plan” (2007) * Terry 
Crews in “Lottery Ticket” (2010) * Dwayne “The 
Rock” Johnson in “Be Cool” (2005) * Reginald 
Hudlin in “Daddy Day Camp” (2007). These are just 
a few examples. If you have a specific movie in mind, 
feel free to ask!
Ours
1. What are the movies 
that Essence Atkins has 
acted in? 2. Who were 
the co-stars of Essence 
Atkins in the movies 
“Deliver Us from Eva” and 
“Intermission”?
Based on the context provided, Essence Atkins 
acted in the movie “Deliver Us from Eva” with 
Duane Martin and Gabrielle Union. Therefore, those 
three actors appeared in the same movie with Essence 
Atkins.
Table 5  Two examples of incorrect answers provided by an LLM and correct answers, together with proper subquestions, generated by our 
method
 
1 3
1102 
Page 14 of 19

Knowledge graph-extended retrieval augmented generation for question answering
that are both generalizable (as in KAPING) and explain­
able (as in Keqing). To bridge this gap, we developed an 
improved, training-free version of KAPING.
Second, we explored methods to improve answer 
explainability using a KG-RAG system. Inspired by Keqing 
[21] and the work of [46], we designed a question decom­
position module that first generates a chain-of-thought 
(CoT) followed by coherent sub-questions. This approach 
not only improved performance on multi-hop questions but 
also provided transparent reasoning chains, thereby enhanc­
ing answer explainability. Overall, the proposed solution 
achieved higher answer accuracy (as measured by the 
Hit@1 metric) and improved transparency, though further 
validation is needed to confirm its generalizability across 
different domains, KGs, and question types.
5.2  Future work
Future research should focus on deepening the investigation 
into application generalizability by employing benchmarks 
with KGs composed largely of natural language, ensuring 
the triple selection mechanism via text embeddings func­
tions effectively. Given some limitations of the MetaQA 
benchmark, exploring alternative benchmarks with diverse 
question domains may yield more robust conclusions. How­
ever, additional experiments on other datasets, such as, 
WebQuestions [41], WebQSP [30], ComplexWebQuestions 
[42], Mintaka [29], LC-QuAD [43], and ZJQA [22], would 
be beneficial. Our initial attempt on the Mintaka bench­
mark revealed that there is a strong discrepancy between 
4.5  Discussion: limitations
Here, we outline key limitations of the carried out research, 
which subsequently allow us to formulate future work.
First, constrained computational resources forced the use 
of a quantized, relatively small LLM, significantly impact­
ing absolute performance—despite potentially preserving 
relative improvements over baselines. These constraints 
also necessitated random sampling of test subsets rather 
than evaluating on full datasets.
Second, the MetaQA benchmark is relatively simple, 
with a narrow domain and exclusively multi-hop questions. 
As noted in Section 4.3.1, some 3-hop questions are answer­
able using only 1-hop triples, which may skew performance 
evaluations compared to more complex benchmarks.
In summary, key limitations include the restricted LLM 
size, the simplicity and flaws of the MetaQA benchmark, 
and the inadequacy of the Hit@1 metric for modern KGQA 
systems.
5  Conclusion
5.1  Contributions
Our study addressed two primary research questions. First, 
we investigated enhancing LLMs with knowledge graphs 
(KGs) without requiring any training. By leveraging the 
synergy between LLM reasoning and the structured knowl­
edge in KGs, we identified a gap in creating KGQA models 
Fig. 7  The distribution of the number of sub-questions that were generated, for each of the MetaQA samples that was analyzed for the qualitative 
analysis (see Table 4 for more details)
 
1 3
Page 15 of 19 
1102

J. Linders, J. M. Tomczak
presumably the cause of a variety of systematic errors in 
the different system components. Interestingly, recently 
proposed reasoning models [51–53] has proven their use­
fulness in multiple specific QA tasks like in biology [54] 
and medicine [55], and they seem to be more faithful [56]. 
As a result, it seems replacing the LLM used in this paper 
with recently trained reasoning LLMs may further improve 
question answering and also increase the performance of 
our approach. Additionally, LLM inference parameters 
could be explored further, although this is expected to be 
more of a nuance; the selection of a LLM that is up to the 
wide variety of tasks for a successful system, e.g., a reason­
ing LLM, is expected to be the most influential for better 
overall performance.
Additionally, the design of a more advanced triple 
retrieval mechanism might be attempted, although it will 
be challenging to do this in a manner that does not require 
training and that might be generalized over different 
benchmarks. Still, a more sophisticated way of retrieving 
candidate triples or selecting from candidate triples could 
improve performance and efficiency. For example, for KGs 
with a relatively low number of relationship types, a suit­
able LLM could be asked to select a select number of the 
most relevant relationship types, which could then be used 
for candidate triple retrieval. This could avoid the retrieval 
of irrelevant triples, thus possibly leading to enhanced per­
formance and efficiency.
For real-world applications, it is recommended to inves­
tigate finetuning techniques, since these can considerably 
increase performance [21, 22]. For example, if both ques­
tion and answer entities are known, all paths between them 
could be identified, the most relevant ones could be selected, 
and these could then be used to finetune the text embedding 
model for the triple selection mechanism. This would likely 
not be very computationally intensive, since the text embed­
ding model that was used is relatively small. Alternatively, 
another text embedding model could be used, or inspiration 
could be taken from the related work in Section 2.2 regard­
ing finetuning techniques.
Author Contributions  Conceptualization: Jakub M. Tomczak, Jasper 
Linders; Methodology: Jasper Linders, Jakub M. Tomczak; Formal 
analysis and investigation: Jasper Linders, Jakub M. Tomczak; Im­
plementation: Jasper Linders; Writing - original draft preparation: 
Jasper Linders; Writing - review and editing: Jasper Linders, Jakub 
M. Tomczak; Supervision: Jakub M. Tomczak.
Data Availability and Access  The dataset MetaQA is freely available 
at ​h​t​t​p​s​:​/​/​g​i​t​h​u​b​.​c​o​m​/​y​u​y​u​z​/​M​e​t​a​Q​A (Last accessed: April 14, 2025).
Declarations
Competing Interests  The authors have no competing interests to de­
clare that are relevant to the content of this article.
the Hit@1 score and qualitative analysis. The reason for 
that is due to how the system generated sub-answers and 
final answers to specific question types in that benchmark, 
which was not the case for MetaQA. For example, a ques­
tion might be comparative, e.g., a question like “Who is 
taller, A or B?”. Since our system generates a full main 
answer rather than just mentioning the answer entity, the 
Hit@1 score might incorrectly attribute points where none 
are due. In other words, even though further testing with 
other KGQA benchmarks is desirable to confirm that the 
system architecture is generalizable across domains, KGs 
and question types, this would require better evaluation 
metrics and, potentially, modifications to the system. There 
is a common agreement in the literature that Hit@1 is not 
appropriate metric for tasks for assessing modern KGQA 
systems [20–22]. Recent research on automated evaluation 
of natural language outputs [50] may offer promising alter­
natives. We leave investigating this research direction for 
future.
Furthermore, the low hanging fruit is the use of a more 
sophisticated LLM, as the small, quantized LLM was 
Table 6  Examples of questions for which the given answer do not con­
tain expected real answer or names are misspelled (in bold)
Question
Real Answer
Given Answer
Can you 
give a few 
words 
describing 
Just My 
Luck?
Lindsay 
Lohan or 
”Kiss” or 
Chris Pine
Based on the context provided, 
”Just My Luck” is a comedy film as 
indicated by the genre label associated 
with it in the sub-questions. The movie 
features a comedic tone and explores 
themes common to comedy films. The 
cast includes actors known for their 
roles in comedies, further supporting 
this characterization. However, without 
additional information, it is impossible 
to identify specific themes or genres 
beyond the genre label of comedy.
Describe 
Dorian 
Gray in 
a few 
words?
Colin Firth or 
Ben Barnes
Dorian Gray is a character from Oscar 
Wilde’s novel ”The Picture of Dorian 
Gray”. He is known for his youthful 
beauty and obsession with preserv­
ing his appearance. Dorian makes a 
Faustian deal, leading to his portrait 
aging instead of himself, enabling him 
to live a hedonistic lifestyle without 
facing the consequences. The character 
is typically described as handsome and 
is known for his increasing moral cor­
ruption over time.
Who 
wrote the 
screenplay 
for Fran­
kenstein’s 
Army?
Richard 
Raaphorst
The screenplay for ”Frankenstein’s 
Army” was written and directed by 
Richard Raaporst.
Who stars 
in Max 
Keeble’s 
Big Move?
Alex D. Linz
Alex D. Linden is the actor who stars 
in the film ”Max Keeble’s Big Move”.
1 3
1102 
Page 16 of 19

Knowledge graph-extended retrieval augmented generation for question answering
11.	 Pan JZ, Razniewski S, Kalo J-C, Singhania S, Chen J, Dietze S, 
Jabeen H, Omeliyanenko J, Zhang W, Lissandrini M, Biswas R, 
Melo G, Bonifati A, Vakaj E, Dragoni M, Graux D (2023) Large 
Language Models and Knowledge Graphs: Opportunities and 
Challenges 000(111):1–30
12.	 Bender EM, Gebru T, McMillan-Major A, Shmitchell S (2021) 
On the dangers of stochastic parrots: Can language models be too 
big? FAccT 2021 - Proceedings of the 2021 ACM conference on 
fairness, accountability, and transparency, pp 610–623. ​h​t​t​p​s​:​/​/​d​o​
i​.​o​r​g​/​1​0​.​1​1​4​5​/​3​4​4​2​1​8​8​.​3​4​4​5​9​2​2
13.	 Yang L, Chen H, Li Z, Ding X, Wu X (2023) ChatGPT is not 
Enough: Enhancing Large Language Models with Knowledge 
Graphs for Fact-aware Language Modeling 14(8):1–20
14.	 Lewis P, Perez E, Piktus A, Petroni F, Karpukhin V, Goyal N, 
Küttler H, Lewis M, Yih WT, Rocktäschel T, Riedel S, Kiela D 
(2020) Retrieval-augmented generation for knowledge-intensive 
NLP tasks. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 
2020-Decem
15.	 Gao Y, Xiong Y, Gao X, Jia K, Pan J, Bi Y, Dai Y, Sun J, Wang 
M, Wang H (2023) Retrieval-Augmented Generation for Large 
Language Models: A Survey
16.	 Hussien MM, Melo AN, Ballardini AL, Maldonado CS, Izquierdo 
R, Sotelo MA (2025) Rag-based explainable prediction of road 
users behaviors for automated driving using knowledge graphs 
and large language models. Expert Syst Appl 265:125914
17.	 Matsumoto N, Moran J, Choi H, Hernandez ME, Venkatesan M, 
Wang P, Moore JH (2024) Kragen: a knowledge graph-enhanced 
rag framework for biomedical problem solving using large lan­
guage models. Bioinformatics 40(6):353
18.	 Xu Z, Cruz MJ, Guevara M, Wang T, Deshpande M, Wang X, Li 
Z (2024) Retrieval-augmented generation with knowledge graphs 
for customer service question answering. In: Proceedings of the 
47th international ACM SIGIR conference on research and devel­
opment in information retrieval, pp 2905–2909
19.	 Zhao X, Liu S, Yang S-Y, Miao C (2025) Medrag: Enhancing 
retrieval-augmented generation with knowledge graph-elicited 
reasoning for healthcare copilot. Proceedings of the ACM on web 
conference 2025:4442–4457
20.	 Baek J, Aji A.F, Saffari A (2023) Knowledge-Augmented Lan­
guage Model Prompting for Zero-Shot Knowledge Graph Ques­
tion Answering. Proceedings of the Annual Meeting of the 
Association for Computational Linguistics, pp 70–98. ​h​t​t​p​s​:​/​/​d​o​i​.​
o​r​g​/​1​0​.​1​8​6​5​3​/​v​1​/​2​0​2​3​.​n​l​r​s​e​-​1​.​7
21.	 Wang C, Xu Y, Peng Z, Zhang C, Chen B, Wang X, Feng L, An B 
(2023) keqing: knowledge-based question answering is a nature 
chain-of-thought mentor of LLM
22.	 Wu Y, Hu N, Bi S, Qi G, Ren J, Xie A, Song W (2023) Retrieve-
Rewrite-Answer: A KG-to-Text Enhanced LLMs Framework for 
Knowledge Graph Question Answering
23.	 Arenas M, Perez J (2013) Querying Semantic Web Data with 
SPARQL. ACM
24.	 Vaswani A, Shazeer N, Parmar N, Uszkoreit J, Jones L, Gomez 
A.N, Kaiser L, Polosukhin I (2017) Attention is all you need. Adv 
Neural Inf Process Syst 30
25.	 Kaplan J, McCandlish S, Henighan T, Brown TB, Chess B, Child 
R, Gray S, Radford A, Wu J, Amodei D (2020) Scaling Laws for 
Neural Language Models
26.	 Zhao WX, Zhou K, Li J, Tang T, Wang X, Hou Y, Min Y, Zhang 
B, Zhang J, Dong Z, Du Y, Yang C, Chen Y, Chen Z, Jiang J, Ren 
R, Li Y, Tang X, Liu Z, Liu P, Nie J-Y, Wen J-R (2023) A Survey 
of Large Language Models, 1–97
27.	 Chen J, Chen L, Zhu C, Zhou T (2023) How many demonstra­
tions do you need for in-context learning? Findings of the asso­
ciation for computational linguistics: EMNLP 2023:11149–11159
Ethical and Informed Consent for Data Used  The data used in this 
study does not require any ethical approval and can be freely used 
under the Creative Commons 3.0 license.
Open Access   This article is licensed under a Creative Commons 
Attribution 4.0 International License, which permits use, sharing, 
adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, 
as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the 
source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate 
if changes were made. The images or other third party material in this 
article are included in the article’s Creative Commons licence, unless 
indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not 
included in the article’s Creative Commons licence and your intended 
use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted 
use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright 
holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit ​h​t​t​p​:​/​/​c​r​e​a​t​i​v​e​c​o​m​m​o​n​s​.​o​
r​g​/​l​i​c​e​n​s​e​s​/​b​y​/​4​.​0​/.
References
1.	
Fu B, Qiu Y, Tang C, Li Y, Yu H, Sun J (2020) A survey on com­
plex question answering over knowledge base: Recent advances 
and challenges. arXiv preprint arXiv:2007.13069
2.	
Kwiatkowski T, Palomaki J, Redfield O, Collins M, Parikh A, 
Alberti C, Epstein D, Polosukhin I, Devlin J, Lee K et al (2019) 
Natural questions: a benchmark for question answering research. 
Trans Assoc Comput Linguis 7:453–466
3.	
Garcia N, Otani M, Chu C, Nakashima Y (2020) KnowIT VQA: 
Answering knowledge-based questions about videos. Proc AAAI 
Conf Artif Intell 34:10826–10834
4.	
Wu P, Zhang X, Feng Z (2019) A survey of question answering 
over knowledge base. In: Knowledge graph and semantic com­
puting: knowledge computing and language understanding: 4th 
China conference, CCKS 2019, Hangzhou, China, August 24–27, 
2019, revised selected papers 4, pp 86–97. Springer
5.	
Wu T, Garcia N, Otani M, Chu C, Nakashima Y, Takemura H 
(2021) Transferring domain-agnostic knowledge in video ques­
tion answering. In: Proceedings of british machine vision confer­
ence (BMVC)
6.	
Esposito M, Damiano E, Minutolo A, De Pietro G, Fujita H 
(2020) Hybrid query expansion using lexical resources and word 
embeddings for sentence retrieval in question answering. Inf Sci 
514:88–105
7.	
Zhang J, Huang B, Fujita H, Zeng G, Liu J (2023) Feqa: Fusion 
and enhancement of multi-source knowledge on question answer­
ing. Expert Syst Appl 227:120286
8.	
Brown TB, Mann B, Ryder N, Subbiah M, Kaplan J, Dhariwal 
P, Neelakantan A, Shyam P, Sastry G, Askell A, Agarwal S, 
Herbert-Voss A, Krueger G, Henighan T, Child R, Ramesh A, 
Ziegler DM, Wu J, Winter C, Hesse C, Chen M, Sigler E, Litwin 
M, Gray S, Chess B, Clark J, Berner C, McCandlish S, Radford 
A, Sutskever I, Amodei D (2020) Language models are few-shot 
learners. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 
2020-Decem
9.	
Ji Z, Lee N, Frieske R, Yu T, Su D, Xu Y, Ishii E, Bang YJ, 
Madotto A, Fung P (2023) Survey of Hallucination in Natural 
Language Generation. ACM Comput Surv 55(12). ​h​t​t​p​s​:​/​/​d​o​i​.​o​r​
g​/​1​0​.​1​1​4​5​/​3​5​7​1​7​3​0
10.	 Pan S, Luo L, Wang Y, Chen C, Wang J, Wu X (2024) Unifying 
large language models and knowledge graphs: A roadmap. IEEE 
Trans Knowl Data Eng 36(7):3580–3599
1 3
Page 17 of 19 
1102

J. Linders, J. M. Tomczak
Fu W, Fuller B, Gao C, Goswami V, Goyal N, Hartshorn A, Hos­
seini S, Hou R, Inan H, Kardas M, Kerkez V, Khabsa M, Klou­
mann I, Korenev A, Koura PS, Lachaux M-A, Lavril T, Lee J, 
Liskovich D, Lu Y, Mao Y, Martinet X, Mihaylov T, Mishra P, 
Molybog I, Nie Y, Poulton A, Reizenstein J, Rungta R, Saladi K, 
Schelten A, Silva R, Smith EM, Subramanian R, Tan XE, Tang B, 
Taylor R, Williams A, Kuan JX, Xu P, Yan Z, Zarov I, Zhang Y, 
Fan A, Kambadur M, Narang S, Rodriguez A, Stojnic R, Edunov 
S, Scialom T (2023) Llama 2: Open Foundation and Fine-Tuned 
Chat Models
41.	 Berant J (2013) Semantic Parsing on Freebase from Question-
Answer Pairs (October), 1533–1544
42.	 Talmor A, Berant J (2013) The Web as a Knowledge-base for 
Answering Complex Questions
43.	 Dubey M, Banerjee D, Abdelkawi A, Lehmann J (2019) Lc-
quad 2.0: A large dataset for complex question answering over 
wikidata and dbpedia. In: The semantic web–ISWC 2019: 18th 
international semantic web conference, Auckland, New Zealand, 
October 26–30, 2019, proceedings, part II 18, pp 69–78. Springer
44.	 Pedersen T, Patwardhan S, Michelizzi J et al (2004) WordNet: 
Similarity-Measuring the Relatedness of Concepts. In: AAAI, vol 
4, pp 25–29
45.	 Hu EJ, Shen Y, Wallis P, Allen-Zhu Z, Li Y, Wang S, Wang L, 
Chen W (2021) LoRA: Low-Rank Adaptation of Large Language 
Models
46.	 Radhakrishnan A, Nguyen K, Chen A, Chen C, Denison C, 
Hernandez D, Durmus E, Hubinger E, Kernion J, Lukošiūtė K, 
Cheng N, Joseph N, Schiefer N, Rausch O, McCandlish S, Showk 
SE, Lanham T, Maxwell T, Chandrasekaran V, Hatfield-Dodds 
Z, Kaplan J, Brauner J, Bowman SR, Perez E (2023) Question 
Decomposition Improves the Faithfulness of Model-Generated 
Reasoning
47.	 Jiang AQ, Sablayrolles A, Mensch A, Bamford C, Chaplot DS, 
Casas Ddl, Bressand F, Lengyel G, Lample G, Saulnier L, Lavaud 
LR, Lachaux M-A, Stock P, Scao TL, Lavril T, Wang T, Lacroix 
T, Sayed WE (2023) Mistral 7B
48.	 Nguyen M, Baker A, Neo C, Roush A, Kirsch A, Shwartz-Ziv R 
(2024) Turning Up the Heat: Min-p Sampling for Creative and 
Coherent LLM Outputs
49.	 Steinmetz N, Sattler KU (2021) What is in the KGQA Benchmark 
Datasets? Survey on Challenges in Datasets for Question Answer­
ing on Knowledge Graphs. J Data Semantics 10(3–4):241–265. ​h​t​
t​p​s​:​/​/​d​o​i​.​o​r​g​/​1​0​.​1​0​0​7​/​s​1​3​7​4​0​-​0​2​1​-​0​0​1​2​8​-​9
50.	 Guo Z, Jin R, Liu C, Huang Y, Shi D, Supryadi, Yu L, Liu Y, Li J, 
Xiong B, Xiong D (2023) Evaluating Large Language Models: A 
Comprehensive Survey
51.	 Chen Y, Benton J, Radhakrishnan A, Uesato J, Denison C, Schul­
man J, Somani A, Hase P, Wagner M, Roger F et al (2025) Rea­
soning models don’t always say what they think. arXiv preprint 
arXiv:2505.05410
52.	 Guo D, Yang D, Zhang H, Song J, Zhang R, Xu R, Zhu Q, Ma 
S, Wang P, Bi X et al (2025) Deepseek-r1: Incentivizing reason­
ing capability in llms via reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint 
arXiv:2501.12948
53.	 OpenAI (2024) Learning to reason with LLMs. OpenAI Blog 
Post. ​h​t​t​p​s​:​/​/​o​p​e​n​a​i​.​c​o​m​/​i​n​d​e​x​/​l​e​a​r​n​i​n​g​-​t​o​-​r​e​a​s​o​n​-​w​i​t​h​-​l​l​m​s​/
54.	 Shao L, Yu H, Huang W, Zhao H, Zhang L, Song J (2025) 
Deepseek-based multi-dimensional augmentation of short and 
highly domain-specific textual inquires for aquaculture question-
answering framework. Aquacult Int 33(4):279
55.	 Luo P-W, Liu J-W, Xie X, Jiang J-W, Huo X-Y, Chen Z-L, Huang 
Z-C, Jiang S-Q, Li M-Q (2025) DeepSeek vs ChatGPT: a com­
parison study of their performance in answering prostate cancer 
radiotherapy questions in multiple languages. Am J Clin Exp Urol 
13(2):176
28.	 Wei J, Wang X, Schuurmans D, Bosma M, Ichter B, Xia F, Chi E, 
Le Q, Zhou D (2022) Chain-of-Thought Prompting Elicits Rea­
soning in Large Language Models
29.	 Sen P, Aji AF, Saffari A (2022) Mintaka: A Complex, Natural, and 
Multilingual Dataset for End-to-End Question Answering. Pro­
ceedings - International Conference on Computational Linguis­
tics, COLING 29(1):1604–1619
30.	 Yih WT, Richardson M, Meek C, Chang MW, Suh J (2016) The 
value of semantic parse labeling for knowledge base question 
answering. 54th Annual meeting of the association for computa­
tional linguistics, ACL 2016 - short papers, pp 201–206. ​h​t​t​p​s​:​/​/​d​
o​i​.​o​r​g​/​1​0​.​1​8​6​5​3​/​v​1​/​p​1​6​-​2​0​3​3
31.	 Zhang Y, Dai H, Kozareva Z, Smola A, Song L (2018) Variational 
reasoning for question answering with knowledge graph. In: Pro­
ceedings of the AAAI conference on artificial intelligence, vol 32
32.	 Oliya A, Saffari A, Sen P, Ayoola T (2021) End-to-End Entity 
Resolution and Question Answering Using Differentiable Knowl­
edge Graphs. In: EMNLP (1)
33.	 Sen P, Mavadia S, Saffari A (2023) Knowledge Graph-augmented 
Language Models for Complex Question Answering. Proceed­
ings of the annual meeting of the association for computational 
linguistics, pp 1–8. ​h​t​t​p​s​:​/​/​d​o​i​.​o​r​g​/​1​0​.​1​8​6​5​3​/​v​1​/​2​0​2​3​.​n​l​r​s​e​-​1​.​1
34.	 Gu Y, Pahuja V, Cheng G, Su Y (2022) Knowledge Base Question 
Answering: A Semantic Parsing Perspective
35.	 Sanh V, Webson A, Raffel C, Bach SH, Sutawika L, Alyafeai 
Z, Chaffin A, Stiegler A, Le Scao T, Raja A, Dey M, Bari MS, 
Xu C, Thakker U, Sharma S, Szczechla E, Kim T, Chhablani G, 
Nayak NV, Datta D, Chang J, Jiang MTJ, Wang H, Manica M, 
Shen S, Yong ZX, Pandey H, McKenna M, Bawden R, Wang 
T, Neeraj T, Rozen J, Sharma A, Santilli A, Fevry T, Fries JA, 
Teehan R, Bers T, Biderman S, Gao L, Wolf T, Rush AM (2022) 
Multitask Prompted Training Enables Zero-Shot Task General­
ization. ICLR 2022 - 10th International Conference on Learning 
Representations
36.	 Raffel C, Shazeer N, Roberts A, Lee K, Narang S, Matena M, 
Zhou Y, Li W, Liu PJ (2020) Exploring the limits of transfer 
learning with a unified text-to-text transformer. J Mach Learn Res 
21:1–67
37.	 Chung HW, Hou L, Longpre S, Zoph B, Tay Y, Fedus W, Li Y, 
Wang X, Dehghani M, Brahma S, Webson A, Gu SS, Dai Z, Suz­
gun M, Chen X, Chowdhery A, Castro-Ros A, Pellat M, Robinson 
K, Valter D, Narang S, Mishra G, Yu A, Zhao V, Huang Y, Dai 
A, Yu H, Petrov S, Chi EH, Dean J, Devlin J, Roberts A, Zhou 
D, Le QV, Wei J (2022) Scaling Instruction-Finetuned Language 
Models, 1–54
38.	 Zhang S, Roller S, Goyal N, Artetxe M, Chen M, Chen S, Dewan 
C, Diab M, Li X, Lin XV, Mihaylov T, Ott M, Shleifer S, Shuster 
K, Simig D, Koura PS, Sridhar A, Wang T, Zettlemoyer L (2022) 
OPT: Open Pre-trained Transformer Language Models
39.	 Fitzgerald J, Ananthakrishnan S, Arkoudas K, Bernardi D, Bhagia 
A, Delli Bovi C, Cao J, Chada R, Chauhan A, Chen L, Dwara­
kanath A, Dwivedi S, Gojayev T, Gopalakrishnan K, Gueudre T, 
Hakkani-Tur D, Hamza W, Hueser JJ, Jose KM, Khan H, Liu B, 
Lu J, Manzotti A, Natarajan P, Owczarzak K, Oz G, Palumbo E, 
Peris C, Prakash CS, Rawls S, Rosenbaum A, Shenoy A, Soltan 
S, Sridhar MH, Tan L, Triefenbach F, Wei P, Yu H, Zheng S, Tur 
G, Natarajan P (2022) Alexa Teacher Model: Pretraining and Dis­
tilling Multi-Billion-Parameter Encoders for Natural Language 
Understanding Systems. Proceedings of the ACM SIGKDD inter­
national conference on knowledge discovery and data mining, pp 
2893–2902. ​h​t​t​p​s​:​/​/​d​o​i​.​o​r​g​/​1​0​.​1​1​4​5​/​3​5​3​4​6​7​8​.​3​5​3​9​1​7​3
40.	 Touvron H, Martin L, Stone K, Albert P, Almahairi A, Babaei Y, 
Bashlykov N, Batra S, Bhargava P, Bhosale S, Bikel D, Blecher 
L, Ferrer CC, Chen M, Cucurull G, Esiobu D, Fernandes J, Fu J, 
1 3
1102 
Page 18 of 19

Knowledge graph-extended retrieval augmented generation for question answering
Jakub M. Tomczak  is a leading 
researcher and practitioner in 
GenerativeAI with over 15 years 
of experience in machine learning 
and deep learning. He has led 50+ 
academicand 10+ industrial proj­
ects spanning computer vision, 
large language models, foundation 
models, andagentic AI. His work 
includes more than 45 peer-
reviewed papers at top venues 
(e.g., 
NeurIPS, 
ICML,ICLR, 
CVPR, ICCV), two patents, and a 
landmark book Deep Generative 
Modeling.Jakub has raisedover 
€2.3M in research funding and held leadership roles in both academia 
and industry, includingpositions at Qualcomm, eBay, and multiple 
startups. He served as Program Chair of NeurIPS 2024 andis the 
founder of Amsterdam AI Solutions.
56.	 Chua J, Evans O (2025) Are DeepSeek R1 And Other Reasoning 
Models More Faithful? In: ICLR 2025 workshop on foundation 
models in the wild
Publisher's Note  Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to juris­
dictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.
Jasper Linders  is a graduate of 
the MSc Data Science & Artificial 
Intelligenceprogram at TU Eind­
hoven, with a background in 
Mechanical Engineering. He has 
broad experience indata, analyt­
ics, and intelligent systems, rang­
ing from building dashboards and 
data pipelines todeveloping AI-
powered tools and research-driven 
solutions. Skilled in SQL, statis­
tics, and big data,Jasper focuses 
on transforming complex data into 
clear insights and scalable sys­
tems. Beyond hisacademic and 
technical pursuits, he has worked at IKEA and Albert Heijn, gaining 
hands-on experiencein customer-oriented roles.
1 3
Page 19 of 19 
1102