LSTM-Based Predictions for Proactive Information
Retrieval
Petri Luukkonen, Markus Koskela, Patrik Floréen
Helsinki Institute for Information Technology HIIT
Department of Computer Science, University of Helsinki
ﬁrst.last@helsinki.ﬁ
ABSTRACT
We describe a method for proactive information retrieval
targeted at retrieving relevant information during a writing
task. In our method, the current task and the needs of the
user are estimated, and the potential next steps are unob-
trusively predicted based on the user’s past actions.
We
focus on the task of writing, in which the user is coalescing
previously collected information into a text. Our proactive
system automatically recommends the user relevant back-
ground information. The proposed system incorporates text
input prediction using a long short-term memory (LSTM)
network. We present simulations, which show that the sys-
tem is able to reach higher precision values in an exploratory
search setting compared to both a baseline and a comparison
system.
CCS Concepts
•Information systems →Query intent; Users and inter-
active retrieval; •Human-centered computing →Text
input; •Computing methodologies →Neural networks;
Keywords
Task-based Information Retrieval; Proactive Search; Long
short-term memory networks; Recurrent neural networks;
Text prediction
1.
INTRODUCTION
Proactive systems [31] anticipate the needs of the user and
predict possible next steps based on the user’s preferences
and current context. The central component of proactive
systems is the inference engine, which analyzes the current
context to provide the highest-ranking suggestions. Proac-
tive systems have recently gained popularity, and many of
the contemporary major operating systems include proactive
components, e.g., Google Now, Apple Siri, and Microsoft
Cortana.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of part or all of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for proﬁt or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the ﬁrst page. Copyrights for third-party components of this work must be honored.
For all other uses, contact the owner/author(s).
Neu-IR ’16 SIGIR Workshop on Neural Information Retrieval, July 21,
2016, Pisa, Italy
c⃝2016 Copyright held by the owner/author(s).
 
 
TASK 
CONTEXT
QUERY 
EXPANSION
LSTM or 
INTENT MODEL
PROACTIVE 
QUERY
CONTEXTUAL
RECOMMEN-
DATIONS
Figure 1:
Overview of the proposed proactive re-
trieval system, and the comparison and baseline sys-
tem used in the experiments.
The rationale for using search engines is to ﬁnd informa-
tion that helps us in our daily tasks, be they leisure or pro-
fessional. An ideal search engine would support searching
and identifying useful information that can then be used in
solving these tasks [33]. In proactive information retrieval [5]
the estimation of the current task and context are utilized to
proactively retrieve and recommend relevant items. In par-
ticular, this can include associative forms of recall, e.g., in
a situation where the user does not realize having forgotten
about a speciﬁc resource [27]. A proactive retrieval system
can be viewed as a digital personal assistant that knows the
user’s preferences and aims to provide useful and relevant
information in the current task context.
Long short-term memory (LSTM) networks [17] have re-
cently shown remarkable performance in a variety of natu-
ral language processing tasks, including speech recognition
[16], automatic translation [30], image captioning [35] and
information retrieval [18, 26, 28]. LSTM networks have also
been used to generate various kinds of sequences, including
text [15, 29]. In sequence generation, the network is used
to process input sequences one at a time and to sample the
next item from the output distribution of the network. The
sampled item is then fed to the network as the next input.
This capability to predict future continuations of a sequence
(viz. text in this case) makes LSTMs particularly attractive
for proactive information retrieval.
A typical example of a task is writing about a given topic
[24, 27, 33]. In this paper, we propose a method for sup-
porting the user by proactive information retrieval during a
writing task. An LSTM network is used to expand the proac-
tive queries by predicting the most likely continuations of the
current written text. An overview of the proposed method
is shown in Figure 1. We present simulated experiments to
validate the utility of the LSTM predictions in providing
relevant documents, and compare the method to a baseline
and to another method based on user intent modeling.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. In the follow-
arXiv:1606.06137v1  [cs.IR]  20 Jun 2016

ing section a discussion of related work is provided. In Sec-
tion 3 we describe the components of our proactive retrieval
system: the query expansion methods (based on an LSTM
and on user intent modeling), and the proactive query gener-
ation. In Section 4 we describe our simulation experiments.
In Section 5 we present our experimental user interface for
providing proactive recommendations based on the current
task context. The user interface is used in forthcoming user
studies. We conclude and discuss future work in Section 6.
2.
RELATED WORK
Recurrent neural networks (RNNs), and LSTMs in par-
ticular, have recently been used to generate sequences in
various domains, such as music [7], text [15, 29], and hand-
writing [15]. In information retrieval, RNNs have been used,
e.g., for extracting sentence-level semantic vectors [26] and
context-aware query suggestion [28].
Other kinds of deep
neural networks have been used to project queries and doc-
uments to low-dimensional semantic spaces [18] and to learn
ﬁxed-length vectors for variable-length pieces of texts, such
as sentences, paragraphs, and documents [21].
Various types of task activities have been studied in the
literature as a basis for query suggestion or query sup-
port. Motivated by the observation that a notable propor-
tion of the user’s information needs were triggered by previ-
ous web browsing activity, several authors have studied the
correlation between web browsing behavior and consecutive
searches [10, 20, 22]. Another popular approach is to use
previous search queries [9, 36]. Our work is related to query
auto-completion [4], in which possible completions of search
engine queries are predicted. Query auto-completion for web
and mobile queries has recently been studied in [25, 34].
A much studied task scenario for intelligent assistants is
writing.
The existing work has largely focused on biblio-
graphic tasks involved in writing scientiﬁc or professional
texts [3, 23, 32]. These mostly target either the planning or
review phases of writing, as translation, i.e., transforming
the writer’s mental ideas into sentences, is the most chal-
lenging process in terms of tolerance to undesired disrup-
tions. In [24], the impact of proactive recommendations to
diﬀerent phases of the writing process is analyzed. The Re-
active Keyboard [11] is an early prototype for predicting the
succeeding words from a user-written text fragment. Com-
pleting written sentences has also been studied in [6, 14].
The setup of our work is closely related to what was envi-
sioned already by Rhodes and Starner in their Remembrance
Agent (RA) [27]. The user ﬁrst indexes her personal data,
e.g., emails and written notes. RA is then set to run con-
tinuously in the background and display a list of summaries
of documents that are related to the current document be-
ing read or written. Other similar tools include Watson [8]
and Implicit Query [12]. The main diﬀerence of our method
compared to these systems is the of use an LSTM-based pre-
dictive model to perform query expansion. We also compare
our method to a baseline and a method based on user intent
modeling. In this paper, we evaluate our method using a
simulated writing task, but our method can be applied to
other sources of context, such as what is read on the screen.
3.
METHOD FOR PROACTIVE IR
The proactive recommendations produced by our method
are based on user input observed during the current task. To
Figure 2: A tree is formed from the diﬀerent con-
tinuations estimated from the input word w0.
On
each level of the tree, nodes other than k = 3 high-
est scoring ones are pruned out. As the branching
coeﬃcient is b = 4, there are at most 12 candidates
on each level before the pruning.
improve the recommendations, we propose to use an LSTM-
based method for query expansion described in Section 3.1.
For comparison, we use a method based on estimating user
intent using a multi-armed bandit model (Section 3.2 and
Appendix A). Proactive information retrieval using the ex-
panded query is described in Section 3.3. An overview of the
proposed method (and the comparison and baseline meth-
ods) is shown in Figure 1.
3.1
LSTM Text Prediction
In LSTM-based query expansion, the most probable con-
tinuations are estimated for the current written text and the
expansion words are selected from these estimated contin-
uations. For computing the continuations, we use a beam
search algorithm [19] described below.
The LSTM network f is ﬁrst trained using a text corpus,
like abstracts of scientiﬁc articles. The trained network can
then serve as a model for text generation.
Let us assume the user has written n input words and
denote by w0 the latest word in the input sequence. When
given an input word w, the network f will return a proba-
bility distribution for the next word, of which we will con-
sider the b most probable candidates. For example, with the

Figure 3: Examples of diﬀerent continuations corresponding the paths in the pruned tree of Figure 2. Words
having the highest scores are selected and added to the query.
branching coeﬃcient b = 4 and w0 = “neural”, the top candi-
dates from f could be {w1
1 = “model”, w1
2 = “network”, w1
3 =
“surgery”, w1
4 = “system”}, where wj
i denotes the ith candi-
date for the jth word following the input word w0.
The
output probability of the word is denoted as p(wj
i ). Fur-
ther continuations are computed by using previous candi-
date words as input to f. Note that the output of f depends
not only on the latest input word, but on all input words so
far. The diﬀerent continuations form a tree structure, where
the root node is the input word w0 from which the contin-
uations or paths evolve (see Figure 2). We denote by d the
depth of the tree, i.e., the number of words in the estimated
continuations of the sentence.
As the size of the tree grows rather quickly, the number of
generated paths is controlled by the beam width k, pruning
nodes on each level based on word probabilities on their
corresponding paths. The path from w0 to wj
i is denoted
by π(wj
i ), e.g., in Figure 2, π(w3
1) = (w0, w1
1, w2
3, w3
1). The
pruning score R(wj
i ) is deﬁned as the product of the word
probabilities on π(wj
i ):
R(wj
i ) =
Y
w′∈π(wj
i )
p(w′) .
(1)
On each level of the tree, nodes other than the k highest
scoring ones are pruned out. After the pruning on level j,
the level j +1 candidates are obtained using the k remaining
words. Figures 2 and 3 show examples of the pruned tree
and the corresponding continuations.
Continuing our previous example, the second set of es-
timated words following the input word w0 are computed
using the estimated words from the level 1, e.g. when feed-
ing to network f the word w1
4 = “system”, the top candi-
dates returned could be {w2
9 = “and”, w2
10 = “that”, w2
11 =
“of”, w2
12 = “is”}.
The third level of generated words are
computed using the words from the second level and so
forth: w2
12 = “is” →{w3
9 = “also”, w3
10 = “without”, w3
11 =
“proposed”, w3
12 = “derived”}.
The query expansion is formed from the words remaining
in the pruned tree.
First, the words are ﬁltered using a
standard list of English stop words. The query expansion
score of wi
j is deﬁned as the product of its idf value and its
probability deﬁned by the model f:
score(wj
i ) = idf(wj
i ) · p(wj
i ) .
(2)
The idf values were computed from the same training data
that was used to train the network using the form idf(w) =
N
Nw , where Nw is the number of documents where the word w
appears in, and N is the total number of documents. Finally,
the nexp words having the highest scores are added to the
expanded query.
3.2
User Intent Model
As a comparison method, we use an upper conﬁdence
bound algorithm, which is based on estimating the user in-
tent using a multi-armed bandit model [13]. The model bal-
ances exploration with exploitation and selects words that
have the highest upper conﬁdence bound [2]. This allows the
user to interact with words that are relevant, but that are
also uncertain to the model. Further details of the method
are described in Appendix A.
3.3
Proactive Query
Whenever resources are retrieved proactively, our system
works as follows; for simplicity we refer to this as a proactive
query, despite that there is no explicit query from the user.
Based on the n input words, our query expansion modules
retrieve nexp suggested words and add them to the query.
The actual information retrieval is performed using the
Lucene search engine with the standard cosine-similarity
ranking.
4.
SIMULATION EXPERIMENTS
In order to test whether our method provides relevant doc-
uments, we performed two kinds of simulation experiments.
In the simulations, the input corresponding to text the user
types comes from a given document. We perform query ex-
pansion with the LSTM-based text prediction method and
with the user intent model. In the baseline experiments, we
use only the written input as the queries.
4.1
Data Set
The simulations were performed using the abstracts of the
Computer Science branch of the arXiv 1 preprint database,
downloaded on October 28, 2015. The branch contains a
total of 40 subcategories, which are used as topics in our
experiments. A document in the arXiv database can belong
to several subcategories, i.e., several topics in our case.
4.2
Parameters
We used the medium LSTM architecture of Zaremba et al.
[37] with an Tensorﬂow implementation. The network has
two layers, 650 units per layer, and is unrolled for 35 words.
All the abstracts in the data set were used to train the LSTM
network. The training data consisted of 15M words with a
vocabulary of 10k words. Training the network took about
36 hours using two GeForce GTX TITAN GPUs. Due to
memory requirements, a random 10% of the abstracts was
used to form the document term matrix for the user intent
model.
In the LSTM-based word prediction, the beam width was
set to k = 80 and the depth to d = 3.
The branching
coeﬃcient was set to b = 10 and nexp = 10.
1http://arxiv.org/

5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
size of context
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
0.45
precision
exploratory search
LSTM
intent model
baseline
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
size of context
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
known items found
known-item search
LSTM
intent model
baseline
Figure 4: Exploratory search document precision (left) and the fraction of known items found (right) for the
LSTM, intent model, and baseline runs.
4.3
Exploratory Search Task
We simulate a setting where a user is writing a text about
a given topic. We choose at random a document and sim-
ulate inputting sequences of n consecutive words from the
text. The variable n serves as the size of the context ex-
pressed as the number of words from the written text. For
instance, if n = 3, and the test text is “Machine learning is
a subﬁeld”, the input sequences for the proactive search en-
gine would be“Machine learning is”, “learning is a”, and“is a
subﬁeld”. We envision a situation where the user has to ﬁnd
some relevant background resources about the given topic.
The aim is thus to ﬁnd other documents about the same
topic t as the input document.
For the proactive queries
(Section 3.3), we use n input words and nexp = 10. The
Lucene search engine was set to return 10 documents.
We use all the documents in the database belonging to the
same topic as the test document as the target set Dt. As
a measure of performance, we use the precision of relevant
documents with regard to the topic t of the input document.
4.4
Known-item Search Task
We also run simulations of known-item search, in which
the purpose is to study a setting where the user needs to
re-ﬁnd a certain previously seen document. The setting is
the same as for the exploratory search task, except that
now we have only one target document in Dt. We take a
random document as the query and perform a Lucene search
over the rest of the data set to retrieve the highest-scoring
document. This is now our target document. Note that the
target document is thus a diﬀerent document than our input
document, and in the simulation we either ﬁnd the target
document or not.
4.5
Results
Figure 4 shows the results of the simulations. On the left-
hand side, the retrieval precision in the exploratory search
task is shown.
The right-hand ﬁgure shows the fractions
of known items found in the known-item search task. First
of all, as expected, in both tasks the results improve as the
size of the context increases. This was especially anticipated
for known-item search, due to how the target document was
selected.
Second, the results show that the query expansion meth-
ods can improve the precision of the proactively retrieved
documents on the exploratory search task.
The LSTM-
based query expansion improves the results when the con-
text is long enough, i.e., when n > 10. The intent model
based query expansion, on the other hand, is suited for small
context sizes (n < 10). For known-item search, the query
expansion methods are not equally beneﬁcial. The intent
model again improves the results for small context sizes,
but the LSTM-based predictions degrade the results.
The simulation results agree rather well with intuition of
the query expansion methods. The user intent model based
method expands the query with terms that have high tf-idf
values in the same documents as the input words. It is con-
ceivable that this is primarily useful when the input context
is small, as the expansion can then bring useful additional
information to the query. The LSTM-based query expan-
sion, on the other hand, dynamically models the written
context and can predict upcoming words. It is unsurprising
that this works better when there is enough input context.
For exploratory search, the predictions made by the LSTM
network are accurate enough to increase the retrieval preci-
sion; in known-item search the target is smaller, i.e., a single
document, and the predictions are not equally useful.
5.
USER INTERFACE
Our research calls for a user study in order to assess the
usefulness of the proactive search results in real-world tasks.
For this reason we have implemented an experimental user
interface intended to be shown in a corner of the screen, dis-
playing the proactive recommendations; see Figure 5. The
interface is designed to allow the user to maintain her fo-
cus on the current task at hand, while oﬀering peripherally-
shown contextual recommendations. Any data source, e.g.,
the user’s own emails, a database of documents, or any
web pages, can be used as information to be proactively
retrieved.
In Figure 5, the resources displayed are arXiv
preprints.

Figure 5: The user interface of the experimental application displaying proactive recommendations.
The
words in the green boxes on the left indicate the written input words (“long short term”). The predictions
by the LSTM network are shown in the white boxes.
For obtaining the current writing context, we have imple-
mented a speciﬁc text editor, which transmits the current
word surrounding the text cursor at each keypress to the
proactive search application; this way the input of n words
gradually builds up. Similarly, the context could be deduced
from, e.g., the text read in a web browser.
By clicking on any of the resources, its contents (i.e., the
corresponding arXiv page in the setting of Figure 5) are
shown in a regular web browser.
6.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS
We have described a method for query expansion to en-
hance proactive information retrieval. The method is based
on predicting the most likely continuations of the current
input using an LSTM network.
The performed experiments provide evidence that our
method is able to proactively produce relevant resources.
The query expansion computed using an LSTM network
improved retrieval precision in an exploratory search task,
when enough context data is available. The results with the
method used as comparison, based on user intent model-
ing using an upper conﬁdence bound algorithm, were par-
tially complementary, improving the results when only lim-
ited context is available. This naturally suggests a further
study on combining the two query expansion methods. Fur-
ther experiments with diﬀerent kinds of datasets and tasks
are in any case needed to validate the results.
In this work, we concentrated on the writing task. We
introduced a simple user interface for showing the proactive
search results based on the written context received from
a dedicated text editor. The text predictions produced by
the LSTM network could also be used to to automatically
suggest diﬀerent continuations for the currently written text,
as in the Reactive Keyboard [11], [6], or [14]. Furthermore,
user studies where the users are performing real-world tasks
need to be carried out.
Finally, in contrast to many of the existing methods
for producing proactive recommendations, the proposed
method generalizes the context gathering in the sense that
the context data can be extracted from several sources, such
as a word processing software, PDF reader, or web browser.
The only requirement for the context data is that it has to
be in textual form.
7.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This work has been partly supported by the Finnish
Funding Agency for Innovation (project Re:Know) and the
Academy of Finland (Finnish Centre of Excellence in Com-
putational Inference Research COIN, 251170).
8.
REFERENCES
[1] K. Athukorala, A. Medlar, K. Ilves, and D. Glowacka.
Balancing exploration and exploitation: Empirical
parameterization of exploratory search systems. In Proc.
CIKM, pages 1703–1706, 2015.
[2] P. Auer. Using conﬁdence bounds for
exploitation-exploration trade-oﬀs. J. Mach. Learn. Res.,
3:397–422, Mar. 2003.
[3] T. Babaian, B. J. Grosz, and S. M. Shieber. A writer’s
collaborative assistant. In Proc. IUI, pages 7–14, 2002.
[4] H. Bast and I. Weber. Type less, ﬁnd more: Fast
autocompletion search with a succinct index. In Proc.
SIGIR, pages 364–371, 2006.
[5] S. Bhatia, D. Majumdar, and N. Aggarwal. Proactive
information retrieval: Anticipating users’ information need.
In Proc. ECIR, pages 874–877. 2016.
[6] S. Bickel, P. Haider, and T. Scheﬀer. Learning to complete
sentences. In Proc. ECML, pages 497–504. 2005.
[7] N. Boulanger-Lewandowski, Y. Bengio, and P. Vincent.
Modeling temporal dependencies in high-dimensional
sequences: Application to polyphonic music generation and
transcription. In Proc. ICML, pages 1159–1166, 2012.
[8] J. Budzik, K. Hammond, and L. Birnbaum. Information
access in context. Knowledge-Based Systems,
14(1–2):37–53, 2001.
[9] H. Cao, D. H. Hu, D. Shen, D. Jiang, J.-T. Sun, E. Chen,
and Q. Yang. Context-aware query classiﬁcation. In Proc.
SIGIR, pages 3–10, 2009.
[10] Z. Cheng, B. Gao, and T.-Y. Liu. Actively predicting
diverse search intent from user browsing behaviors. In Proc.
WWW, pages 221–230, 2010.

[11] J. J. Darragh, I. H. Witten, and M. L. James. The Reactive
Keyboard: A predictive typing aid. Computer,
23(11):41–49, 1990.
[12] S. Dumais, E. Cutrell, R. Sarin, and E. Horvitz. Implicit
queries (IQ) for contextualized search. In Proc. SIGIR,
pages 594–594, 2004.
[13] D. Glowacka, T. Ruotsalo, K. Konuyshkova, S. Kaski,
G. Jacucci, et al. Directing exploratory search:
Reinforcement learning from user interactions with
keywords. In Proc. IUI, pages 117–128, 2013.
[14] K. Grabski and T. Scheﬀer. Sentence completion. In Proc.
SIGIR, pages 433–439, 2004.
[15] A. Graves. Generating sequences with recurrent neural
networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1308.0850, 2013.
[16] A. Graves, A. r. Mohamed, and G. Hinton. Speech
recognition with deep recurrent neural networks. In Proc
ICASSP, pages 6645–6649, 2013.
[17] S. Hochreiter and J. Schmidhuber. Long short-term
memory. Neural Computation, 9(8):1735–1780, 1997.
[18] P.-S. Huang, X. He, J. Gao, L. Deng, A. Acero, and
L. Heck. Learning deep structured semantic models for web
search using clickthrough data. In Proc. CIKM, pages
2333–2338, 2013.
[19] P. Koehn. Statistical machine translation. Cambridge
University Press, 2009.
[20] W. Kong, R. Li, J. Luo, A. Zhang, Y. Chang, and J. Allan.
Predicting search intent based on pre-search context. In
Proc. SIGIR, pages 503–512, 2015.
[21] Q. V. Le and T. Mikolov. Distributed representations of
sentences and documents. arXiv preprint arXiv:1405.4053,
2014.
[22] D. J. Liebling, P. N. Bennett, and R. W. White.
Anticipatory search: Using context to initiate search. In
Proc. SIGIR, pages 1035–1036, 2012.
[23] A. Livne, V. Gokuladas, J. Teevan, S. T. Dumais, and
E. Adar. Citesight: Supporting contextual citation
recommendation using diﬀerential search. In Proc. SIGIR,
pages 807–816, 2014.
[24] M. C. P. Melguizo, L. Boves, and O. M. Ramos. A
proactive recommendation system for writing: Helping
without disrupting. International Journal of Industrial
Ergonomics, 39(3):516–523, 2009.
[25] B. Mitra and N. Craswell. Query auto-completion for rare
preﬁxes. In Proc. CIKM, pages 1755–1758, 2015.
[26] H. Palangi, L. Deng, Y. Shen, J. Gao, X. He, J. Chen,
X. Song, and R. Ward. Deep sentence embedding using
long short-term memory networks. arXiv:1502.06922, 2015.
[27] B. Rhodes and T. Starner. Remembrance Agent: A
continuously running automated information retrieval
system. In Proc. PAAM96, pages 487–495, 1996.
[28] A. Sordoni, Y. Bengio, H. Vahabi, C. Lioma,
J. Grue Simonsen, and J.-Y. Nie. A hierarchical recurrent
encoder-decoder for generative context-aware query
suggestion. In Proc. CIKM, pages 553–562, 2015.
[29] I. Sutskever, J. Martens, and G. E. Hinton. Generating text
with recurrent neural networks. In Proc. ICML, pages
1017–1024, 2011.
[30] I. Sutskever, O. Vinyals, and Q. V. Le. Sequence to
sequence learning with neural networks. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1409.3215, 2014.
[31] D. Tennenhouse. Proactive computing. Commun. ACM,
43(5):43–50, May 2000.
[32] M. B. Twidale, A. A. Gruzd, and D. M. Nichols. Writing in
the library: Exploring tighter integration of digital library
use with the writing process. Information Processing &
Management, 44(2):558–580, 2008.
[33] P. Vakkari. A theory of the task-based information retrieval
process: a summary and generalization of a longitudinal
study. Journal of Documentation, 57(1):44–60, 2001.
[34] S. Vargas, R. Blanco, and P. Mika. Term-by-term query
auto-completion for mobile search. In Proc. WSDM, pages
143–152, 2016.
[35] O. Vinyals, A. Toshev, S. Bengio, and D. Erhan. Show and
tell: A neural image caption generator. In Proc. CVPR,
pages 3156–3164, 2015.
[36] B. Xiang, D. Jiang, J. Pei, X. Sun, E. Chen, and H. Li.
Context-aware ranking in web search. In Proc. SIGIR,
pages 451–458, 2010.
[37] W. Zaremba, I. Sutskever, and O. Vinyals. Recurrent
neural network regularization. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1409.2329, 2014.
APPENDIX
A.
USER INTENT MODEL
For computing the user intent model, we use a training
database consisting of M documents, from which N unique
words are extracted by excluding stop words. The jth doc-
ument in the database is represented by a feature vector
xj ∈RN where xij is the tf-idf value of the ith word. We
denote by X ∈RN×M the tf-idf matrix of the M documents,
where each column of X corresponds to one document fea-
ture vector and each row corresponds to a distribution of
the words over the documents.
The user intent model is estimated using the context
formed using n previously written words. Based on this in-
put, a set of word weights are computed by using the LinRel
algorithm proposed in [2].
We denote the relevance vector of observed words by y ∈
[0, 1]N , where yi = 1 corresponds to having observed the
ith word in the input. If the ith word does not occur in the
subsequent input words, its relevance value starts decreasing
such that yi = n−1
i
, where ni is the number of sets of input
words since the last occurrence of the ith word. For omitting
words having very low relevance values, we use a threshold
τ = 0.1: when yi < τ the value of yi is set to zero.
The observed values in y, corresponding to the input
words so far, are assumed to be formed from the model
y = X ˆw ,
(3)
where ˆw ∈RM is the estimated user intent model describ-
ing what documents from the training set are currently es-
timated to be relevant for the user.
Given y and X, the user model ˆw can be obtained as
ˆw = (XT X + µI)−1XT y ,
(4)
where I is an identity matrix of size M × M and µ ≥0 is a
regularization parameter, set to µ = 1.0 in our experiments.
Using Eq. (4) the relevance estimate ˆy of the words in the
vocabulary is computed as
ˆy = X ˆw = X(XT X + µI)−1XT y = Ay
(5)
and the upper bound of the standard deviation of ˆyi as
ˆσi = ∥rowi(A)∥2.
(6)
The nexp words to be included in the expanded query
correspond to the nexp maximum components of the vector
v = ˆy + cˆσ,
(7)
with words appearing in the input excluded. Here c ≥0
is the exploration/exploitation parameter controlling the
trade-oﬀbetween exploring the search space (large c) and
focusing on the currently most promising region (small c).
We use here c = 1.0 as recommended in the literature [1].