Noname manuscript No.
(will be inserted by the editor)
Overcoming Low-Utility Facets for
Complex Answer Retrieval
Sean MacAvaney · Andrew Yates ·
Arman Cohan · Luca Soldaini · Kai
Hui · Nazli Goharian · Ophir Frieder
Received: date / Accepted: date
Abstract Many questions cannot be answered simply; their answers must
include numerous nuanced details and additional context. Complex Answer
Retrieval (CAR) is the retrieval of answers to such questions. In their simplest
form, these questions are constructed from a topic entity (e.g., ‘cheese’) and
a facet (e.g., ‘health eﬀects’). While topic matching has been thoroughly ex-
plored, we observe that some facets use general language that is unlikely to
appear verbatim in answers. We call these low-utility facets. In this work, we
present an approach to CAR that identiﬁes and addresses low-utility facets.
We propose two estimators of facet utility. These include exploiting the hier-
archical structure of CAR queries and using facet frequency information from
training data. To improve the retrieval performance on low-utility headings,
we also include entity similarity scores using knowledge graph embeddings. We
apply our approaches to a leading neural ranking technique, and evaluate us-
ing the TREC CAR dataset. We ﬁnd that our approach perform signiﬁcantly
This is an extended version of “Characterizing Question Facets for Complex Answer Re-
trieval. TREC 2018.” [18] Extensions include the use of knowledge graphs to inform model,
and an extensive analysis.
S. MacAvaney
Information Retrieval Lab, Georgetown University
3700 O St NW, Washington, DC 20057, United States
Tel.: +1-202-687-5874
Fax: +1-202-687-7822
E-mail: sean@ir.cs.georgetown.edu
A. Yates
Max Planck Institute for Informatics
A. Cohan · L. Soldaini
Information Retrieval Lab, Georgetown University
K. Hui
SAP SE
N. Goharian · O. Frieder
Information Retrieval Lab, Georgetown University
arXiv:1811.08772v1  [cs.IR]  21 Nov 2018

2
Sean MacAvaney et al.
better than the unmodiﬁed neural ranker and other leading CAR techniques.
We also provide a detailed analysis of our results, and verify that low-utility
facets are indeed more diﬃcult to match, and that our approach improves the
performance for these diﬃcult queries.
Keywords complex answer retrieval · knowledge graphs · neural information
retrieval · reranking
1 Introduction
It is common to use search technologies to ﬁnd answers to questions. While
considerable work has been done on questions that have simple factoid an-
swers, less focus has been given to questions with complex answers. Here we
deﬁne complex answers as answers that include many details or additional
context (making complex answers diﬀerent than factoid answers). Complex
Answer Retrieval (CAR) is the process of ﬁnding answers to questions that
have complex answers [8]. Note that CAR questions are not necessarily com-
plex. A question as simple as ‘Is cheese healthy?’ requires a complex answer:
a detailed and nuanced description of positive and negative health eﬀects of
cheese consumption is required to satisfy the information need. In contrast,
a question such as ‘How much Mozzarella cheese do I need to eat to satisfy
my daily requirement of calcium?’ is a complex question with a simple factoid
answer.1
Since complex answers include details and context, they often are formu-
lated as paragraphs of text. Thus, CAR is framed as paragraph retrieval for
a question that has a complex answer. We propose two complementary ap-
proaches to identify question facts that are diﬃcult to match, and one knowl-
edge graph-based approach to assist in the matching of questions with diﬃcult
facets. Due to prior showing that neural models are more eﬀective for CAR
than traditional IR techniques [22], we build our approaches into a leading
neural ranker to validate our methods.
CAR queries can be broken down into two components: the topic and
facet. The topic is the main entity of the question. For the query ‘Is cheese
healthy?’, the topic is the entity ‘Cheese’ (see Figure 1). All answers to the
question must be about this entity, otherwise the answer is not valid. The facet
is the particular detail about which the question inquires. In the example, the
facet can be described as ‘Health eﬀects’. For an answer to be considered
valid to the question, it must refer to health eﬀects of cheese—information
such as nutrition, health risks, etc. These answers can come from multiple
sources. For instance, an article about cardiovascular disease may claim that
diets containing foods such as cheese that are high in saturated fat increase
one’s risk of heart disease (Answer 2 in Figure 1). Such a paragraph would
be valuable to include in a complete answer because it contains contextual
1 This question is complex because it involves advanced reasoning that goes beyond what
is typically captured by a knowledge graph.

Overcoming Low-Utility Facets for Complex Answer Retrieval
3
information about why cheese consumption can increase one’s risk of heart
disease. Thus, it makes sense to frame CAR as retrieval of paragraphs of text
from authoritative sources given a topic and facet. CAR queries with various
facts about a single topic can be combined to produce a detailed article about
a topic.
A straightforward approach for CAR is to simply use an existing IR tech-
nique as-is, concatenating the topic and facet information to build the query.
However, such an approach is limited by several factors speciﬁc to CAR. We
observe that facets are not necessarily mentioned verbatim in relevant para-
graphs. In Figure 1, the relevant answers (1-3) never include ‘health’ because
the context is clear from the other entities mentioned in the answer. On the
other hand, non-relevant answers sometimes do include the facet term (e.g.,
answer 4). An eﬀective CAR engine needs to account for this. Not all facets
exhibit this general behavior. Let’s consider another query: “What is the eﬀect
of curdling in cheese production?” (topic: cheese, facet: curdling). Since ‘cur-
dling’ is not a general-language term, relevant answers probably need to use the
term itself; related entity mentions are probably inadequate and would result
in confusing text. We refer to this distinction as facet utility: high-utility facets
use language that is speciﬁc to the topic and can be found directly in relevant
answers (e.g., ‘curdling’), whereas low-utility facets use general language and
requires additional domain knowledge to identify relevant paragraphs (e.g.,
‘health eﬀects’).
Given these observations, we propose a two-pronged approach to CAR.
First, we attempt to predict facet utility. For this, we use both structural
information about the query itself, and corpus statistics about how frequently
facets are used. Then, to better accommodate low-utility facets, we utilize
entity mentions in the candidate answer. To this end, we construct a knowledge
graph embeddings using a training corpus, and measure distances between the
Question: Is cheese healthy?
Topic: Cheese
Facet: Health effects
Answer 1: Although nutrient levels vary by type of cheese, most cheese are a
rich source of calcium, protein, and sodium. Because the primary
ingredient of cheese is milk, most of most of the nutritional...
Answer 2: Consumption of foods that are high in saturated fat such as cheese
are linked with an increase risk of cardiovascular disease.
This is due to adverse +underline[effects] to blood lipids and circulating...
Answer 3: Cheese has the potential for promoting the growth of Listeria
bacteria. This can cause serious infection in an infant and pregnant
woman and can be transmitted to her infant in utero or after...
Answer 4: Wisconsin is known as "America’s Dairyland" because it is one of
the nation’s leading dairy producers, particularly famous for its
cheese. Manufacturing, health care, information technology, and...
Fig. 1 Hypothetical CAR query with three relevant answers (1-3) and one non-relevant
answer (4). Term matches from the topic and facet are underlined.

4
Sean MacAvaney et al.
topic entity and the entity mentions. We incorporate both the facet utility
estimators and the entity scores into a neural ranking model, and use the model
to retrieve complex answers. These approaches yield signiﬁcant improvements
over the unmodiﬁed neural ranker, and up to 26% improvement over the next
best approach. We then provide a detailed analysis of our results, which shows
that, indeed, low-utility facets are indeed more diﬃcult to match, and that
our approach improves these results. As one of the ﬁrst comprehensive works
on CAR, we expect these insights to guide future work in CAR.
2 Background and Related Work
2.1 Complex Answer Retrieval
Complex answer retrieval is a new area of research in IR. In 2017, the TREC
conference ran a new shared task focused on CAR [8]. The goal of this task is
to rank answer paragraphs corresponding to a complex question. The shared
task frames CAR in terms of Wikipedia content generation. This is appro-
priate because the editorial guidelines and strong role of moderators makes
Wikipedia an authoritative source of information [10]. Paragraphs from arti-
cles meeting topic criteria2 are selected as a source of answers for retrieval. The
task goes one step farther by asserting that Wikipedia is also a good source of
CAR queries and relevance judgments. CAR queries are formed from article
titles (the query topic, an entity), and headings (query facets of that partic-
ular topic). Furthermore, paragraphs found under each heading are treated
as “automatically” relevant to that particular topic, yielding a large amount
of training data [7]. This makes it practical to train data-hungry neural IR
models for CAR. Figure 2 shows an article’s heading hierarchy, including the
question topic and an example facet.
Due to the hierarchal nature of headings in Wikipedia, CAR queries in-
clude multiple headings. This is important to provide adequate context for
the answers. For instance, in Figure 2, heading 7.3 refers specially to the pas-
teurization of cheese as it relates to nutrition and health. For simplicity, we
treat the article title as the ﬁrst element in a list of headings that represents
each query. Thus, a CAR query is a sequence of headings. In the remainder
of this manuscript, we use ‘»’ to separate the heading components of a query.
The root heading is the title and represents the topic entity of the query. The
leaf heading represents the most speciﬁc topic; we call this the main heading.
Intermediate headings are any headings between the title and main heading
provide context for the main heading. Table 1 provides example queries using
this terminology. Note that a given query does not necessarily have any inter-
mediate headings, and that a main heading in one query (Cheese » Nutrition
and health) can appear as an intermediate heading in another query (Cheese
» Nutrition and health » Pasteurization).
2 E.g., templates, talk pages, portals, lists, references, and pages representing people,
organizations, music, books, and others are discarded [8].

Overcoming Low-Utility Facets for Complex Answer Retrieval
5
topic entity (title)
facet (heading)
Fig. 2 Headings found in the Wikipedia article Cheese, including labels for the question
“Is cheese healthy?”. Adapted from https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cheese.
Table 1 Example CAR queries from Wikipedia by heading position. Some queries have no
intermediate headings.
Title
Intermediate Heading(s)
Main Heading
Cheese
»
(none)
»
Nutrition and health
Green sea turtle
»
Ecology and behavior
»
Life cycle
History of the United States
»
20th Century
»
Imperialism
Disturbance (ecology)
»
(none)
»
Cyclic disturbance
Medical tourism
»
Destinations » Europe
»
Finland
Existing work in CAR is relatively limited. Prior to TREC, Nanni et al.
[22] investigated baseline approaches using the automatic relevance judgments
(assuming only paragraphs found under a heading are relevant to that query).
Their approaches include BM25, cosine similarity (both with TF-IDF vectors
and word embeddings), a baseline learning-to-rank approach, query expansion,
and a deep neural model. They found that the deep neural model Duet [21]
outperforms the others.
The 2017 TREC CAR task inspired several new approaches to CAR. In
this work, we extend our submission to TREC and some follow-up analy-
sis [17, 18]. Another top-performing submission uses a Sequential Dependence
Model (SDM [20]) for answer retrieval [15]. They modiﬁed the SDM for CAR
by considering ordered ngrams that occur within an individual heading com-
ponent, and unordered ngrams to terms in diﬀerent headings. This results
in a bias toward matching partial phrases that appear in individual head-
ings, and reduces processing time for long queries. Another approach uses
a Siamese attention network [19]. Features incorporated into this network
include abbreviated entity names and lead paragraph entity mentions from
DBPedia [1]. Yet another approach uses reinforcement learning query refor-
mulation for CAR [25, 24]. The query reformulation step helps the model add
terms that make up for low-utility facets. Our approach diﬀers from these

6
Sean MacAvaney et al.
by (1) explicitly modeling facet utility to predict which headings are unlikely
to appear in relevant documents, and (2) incorporating contextualized entity
relatedness measures to improve performance on low-utility facets.
2.2 Neural IR Models
Recent advances in neural IR have produced promising results in the ad-hoc
domain, making them a potentially useful tool for CAR ranking. Early work
on neural IR models focused on building dense representations of texts that
are capable of being compared to measure relevance (e.g., Deep Structured
Semantic Model (DSSM) [11]). These representation-focused methods are akin
to traditional vector space model approaches. While scalable, representation-
focused methods suﬀer from loss of term locality information, making certain
types of query term matching diﬃcult.
More recently, work has shifted to interaction-focused methods that model
how query terms appear in relevant documents directly, i.e. what patterns of
query terms are typical in relevant documents. These approaches typically use
a two-phase approach (see Figure 3a). The ﬁrst phase ﬁnds term matches for a
query-document pair, often using a convolutional neural network (CNN) and
result pooling. The CNN often iterates over a query-document similarity ma-
trix of pretrained word embedding cosine similarities. The second phase com-
bines the results for each query term using, for instance, a dense feedforward
network. The combination results in a relevance score for the query-document
pair, which is then used for ranking. For instance, the prominent PACRR
model [12] implements the matching layer with a CNN that is max pooled
over ﬁlters, then k-max pooled over query terms to pick out the most salient
signals. Then, the results are combined with a dense combination phase. Gen-
erally, these neural models have been shown to be competitive with conven-
tional ranking techniques due to their ability to learn matching patterns (e.g.,
bigrams, trigrams, skipgrams) from the training data, and combine the results
in a meaningful way. Other prominent interaction-focused architectures in-
clude DRMM [9], MatchPyramid [26], K-NRM [34], Duet [21], DeepRank [27],
Conv-KNRM [4], and Co-PACRR [13]. In this work, we choose to modify a
neural ranking architecture because preliminary work has shown them to be
more eﬀective than conventional approaches out-of-the-box [22] and they can
easily incorporate new techniques and information speciﬁc to this task. Specif-
ically, by default no rankers consider facet utility, and in this work we show
how this can be incorporated into a neural ranking model.
2.3 Wikipedia and Knowledge Graphs
Since knowledge graphs encode which entities are related to one another, they
may be valuable when identifying paragraphs with low-utility facets. There
have been many eﬀorts to organize Wikipedia information into a knowledge

Overcoming Low-Utility Facets for Complex Answer Retrieval
7
q0
q2
q3
q4
q5
q6
q7
q8
q9
d0
...
d1 d2 d3
dn
document
query
main
inter.
title
q0
q2
q3
q4
q5
q6
q7
q8
q9
matching
(e.g. CNN)
d0
...
d1 d2 d3
dn
document
query
main
inter.
title
combination
(e.g. dense)
rel. score
+
contextual
vectors
(a) general neural ranker
(b) contextual vectors
matching
(e.g. CNN)
combination
(e.g. dense)
rel. score
q0
q2
q3
q4
q5
q6
q7
q8
q9
d0
...
d1 d2 d3
dn
document
main
inter.
title
(c) heading independence
combination
(e.g. dense)
matching
(e.g. CNN)
matching
(e.g. CNN)
matching
(e.g. CNN)
rel. score
query
q0
q2
q3
q4
q5
q6
q7
q8
q9
matching
(e.g. CNN)
d0
...
d1 d2 d3
dn
document
query
main
inter.
title
combination
(e.g. dense)
rel. score
(d) knowledge graph scores
doc. entities
e0
...
e1 e2 e3
en
Fig. 3 (a) General ranking architecture, with matching and combination phases (unmodi-
ﬁed). (b) Modiﬁed architecture, including contextual vectors for combination. (c) Modiﬁed
architecture, splitting for heading independence. (d) Modiﬁed architecture, including knowl-
edge graph scores in the combination layer.
graph. Prominent eﬀorts have been the DBPedia [1] and Freebase [2]. Re-
searchers have found that query expansion using knowledge bases can improve
ad-hoc retrieval [6, 33]. Others have investigated how to include knowledge
graph features directly in learning-to-rank approaches [29]. Other eﬀorts have
been in how to train embeddings for entities and relations in knowledge graphs.
Prominent approaches include translational embeddings (TransE) [3], trans-
lational hyperplane embeddings (TransH) [32], and holographic embeddings
(HolE) [23]. Knowledge graphs have also been employed extensively for gen-
eral question answering tasks [35, 30]. In this work, we observe that entity
similarity act as a signal for answers that are otherwise diﬃcult to match (i.e.,
when facets are low-utility). We build a knowledge graph from Wikipedia arti-
cles using entity mentions and heading labels. We then train embeddings, and
use embedding similarities when ranking answers.
3 Method
As mentioned in Section 2, complex answer retrieval (CAR) is a new IR task
focused on retrieving complex answers to questions that include a topic and
facet. Paragraphs from authoritative resources (e.g., Wikipedia) are consid-
ered partial answers for these questions. Identifying and overcoming low-utility

8
Sean MacAvaney et al.
facets is a central challenge to CAR [17]. Here, we propose approaches based
on the Wikipedia-focused CAR problem:
– High-utility facets. We ﬁnd that high-utility facets correspond to headings
that relate to speciﬁc details of an article’s topic: topical headings. Thus,
a given topical heading is unlikely to appear in most articles. However,
we predict that terms found in topical headings are more likely to appear
in relevant paragraphs because people are less likely to have the existing
knowledge to determine meaning from the mentioned entities. Since the
title of an article is the article’s topic, it is necessarily topical.
– Low-utility facets. We identify that low-utility facets often correspond to
structural headings in Wikipedia. These headings provide coherence across
articles by enforcing a standard document structure. As a result, these
headings occur frequently. Furthermore, they often appear as intermediate
headings by organizing topical headings below them. Since the terminology
is necessarily more general, we predict that terms in structural headings
are less likely to appear in relevant paragraphs because readers can ﬁgure
out the context by related entities. Thus, we propose including additional
entity similarity information to accommodate these cases.
Recall that an interaction-focused neural ranker (Figure 3a) involves two
phases: a matching phase that identiﬁes places in the document in which query
terms are used (e.g., convolution), and a combination phase in which the scores
for each query term are combined to produce a ﬁnal relevance score (e.g.,
dense). In the remainder of this section, we present two approaches to inform
an arbitrary interaction-focused neural ranker of facet utility (Section 3.1-3.2,
Figure 3b-c), and one approach to include entity similarity signals to inform
the model of relevance for low-utility facets using knowledge base embedding
similarity scores (Section 3.3, Figure 3d). Finally, we describe our implemen-
tation strategy for a concrete neural ranker (PACRR, Section 3.4).
3.1 Contextual vectors
Many information retrieval approaches use the simple (yet powerful) term IDF
value as a signal for query term importance. Neural models incorporate this
signal, too. For instance, DRMM [9] and PACRR [12] use an IDF vector in
the combination phase. We generalize this approach by allowing an arbitrary
number of contextual vectors to be included in the model alongside term in-
teraction signals (Figure 3b). Here, we use contextual vectors to provide an
estimation of facet utility, understanding that the models can learn how to use
these values when making relevance judgments. We propose two such estima-
tors: heading position (HP) and heading frequency (HF).
Heading position Recall that CAR queries consist of multiple components: the
topic and facet. When framed as Wikipedia content generation, CAR queries
are broken down further into a list of sub-queries, where the ﬁrst represents

Overcoming Low-Utility Facets for Complex Answer Retrieval
9
Table 2 Sample contextual vectors for “green sea turtle » ecology and behavior » life cycle”.
green
sea
turtle
ecology
and
behavior
life
cycle
position_title
1
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
position_inter
0
0
0
1
1
1
0
0
position_main
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
heading_frequency
0
0
0
3
3
3
3
3
the topic, followed by intermediate headings and the main heading. When
estimating heading utility, the position of the heading in the list intuitively
provides a signal of heading utility. For instance, the title is necessarily topical;
it is the topic. Furthermore, any intermediate headings are likely structural
because they provide categorizations for the main heading. Finally, the main
heading may be either topical or structural; its position inherently tells the
model nothing about whether or not to expect the term to appear. Thus,
we encode three vectors to encode query term position information: one that
indicates if the term exists in the title, and intermediate heading, or the main
heading. An example of these vectors is given in Table 2.
The beneﬁts of including heading position information can extend beyond
simply distinguishing whether a term is likely in a topical or structural heading.
For instance, the topic of a question may be abbreviated in relevant paragraphs
to avoid excessive repetition. By including heading position information in this
way, the model can distinguish when certain matching patterns are important
to capture.
Heading frequency Another possible estimator of heading utility is the fre-
quency that a heading appears in a suﬃciently representative dataset. For in-
stance, because structural headings such as “Nutrition and health” are general
and can accommodate a variety of topics, you would expect to ﬁnd the head-
ing in many food-related articles. Indeed, the heading appears in Wikipedia
articles such as Cheese, Beef, Raisin, and others. On the other hand, one would
expect topical headings to use less general language, and thus be less likely to
appear in other articles. For instance the heading ‘After the Acts of Union of
1707’ only appears in the article ‘United Kingdom’.
To represent this value, we use the document frequency of each head-
ing: the heading frequency. Thus, frequent headings (e.g., ‘History’) have a
large heading frequency value, and infrequent headings (e.g., ‘After the Acts
of Union of 1707’) have a low value. For heading matching, we require a com-
plete, case-insensitive match of the text. Thus, ‘Health eﬀects’ and ‘Health
Eﬀects’ are considered the same heading (capitalization), but not ‘Health ef-
fects’ and ‘Health’ (substring) or ‘Health aﬀects’ (typographical error). To
group similarly-frequent headings together, we stratify the heading frequency
value when used as a contextual vector in a range of [0, 3]. In pilot studies, we
found eﬀective breakpoints to be the 60th percentile (approximately the cutoﬀ
for headings that only appear a few times, such as Red Hot Chili Peppers),

10
Sean MacAvaney et al.
90th percentile (approximately the cutoﬀof moderately frequent headings,
such as Finland), and 99th percentile (approximately the cutoﬀof frequent
headings, such as Family and personal life). An example of this vector is given
in Table 2.
When the model encounters the heading frequency value, we expect it to
learn to value high-frequency headings less than low-frequency headings (i.e.,
assign a negative weight). This results in similar behavior to IDF, but with the
important distinction that it operates over entire headings, rather than terms.
For instance, most terms in ‘After the Acts of Union of 1707’ have a low IDF
(i.e., they appear frequently), but as a whole heading, it appears infrequently
and is likely important to match.
Combining contextual vectors The two contextual vectors capture diﬀerent
notions of heading utility. Heading position contextual vectors are able to
discriminate otherwise identical headings based on where they appear in the
query. This can be valuable in some situations: for instance, ‘Imperialism’ and
‘Finland’ in Table 1 appear as main headings, but they could also appear as
the topic of other queries. Heading frequency contextual vectors treat head-
ings with the same text identically, regardless of their position in the query.
However, their power comes from informing the model about the nature of the
speciﬁc heading, and can help identify the utility of main headings (which are
otherwise ambiguous), or headings that do not match the typical characteris-
tics in other heading positions. By including both vectors, the model should
be able to learn a better sense of heading utility by combining the two notions.
3.2 Heading independence
Although contextual vectors can help inform a trained ranker about which
headings are structural and topical, they cannot directly aﬀect which types
of interactions are identiﬁed and how these interactions are scored because
this occurs earlier in the pipeline of the neural model considered (matching
phase). We hypothesize that heading utility can actually aﬀect which signals
are important. For instance, a low-utility structural heading might be more
tolerant to weak term similarities (i.e., ‘colonial’ or ‘ancient’ might be accept-
able matches for ‘History’), or a high-utility topical heading might have stricter
requirements for maintaining the order of terms. Thus, we propose a general
approach to modify a neural ranking architecture to adjust matching based
on heading utility: heading independence.
Heading independence involves splitting the matching phase of a neural
ranker into multiple segments, each responsible for processing a segment of
the query. Here, we split the query by heading position: title, intermediate,
and main headings (see Figure 3c). The processing of each heading position is
independent of the others, so a diﬀerent set of parameters can be learned for
each component. The results of the matching layers are then concatenated and

Overcoming Low-Utility Facets for Complex Answer Retrieval
11
sent to the combination layer of the unmodiﬁed model (e.g., a dense layer) for
the calculation of the ﬁnal relevance score.
This approach makes intuitive sense because one would expect the title to
interact diﬀerently in the document than a structural or topical heading. For
instance, abbreviated versions of the topic are often used to improve readabil-
ity. Furthermore, this approach enforces alignment of headings during com-
bination (see Figure 4). When all query terms are simply concatenated, the
alignment of each query position will change among queries due to diﬀerences
in query length. Thus, the model will need to learn and accommodate multiple
tendencies in a wider variety of positions of the query, rather in just certain
areas.
3.3 Knowledge graph
Although interaction-focused neural rankers often employ word embedding
similarities, word embeddings do not always capture similarities within con-
texts. This results in individual term being close to many topically-similar
terms [14]. Within the context of CAR, we are only concerned with topics
that are similar given a particular context (i.e., the question facet). Further-
more, we know that the most salient contextual information comes from entity
mentions. Since article titles also correspond to entities, and headings can be
considered the context, we use the following approach employing knowledge
graph embeddings.
Before we can train knowledge graph embeddings, we must have a knowl-
edge graph. Since the evaluation topics we use come from Wikipedia, we cannot
use a freely-available knowledge graph based on all of Wikipedia data (e.g.,
Freebase or DBPedia)—this could artiﬁcially improve results by including in-
formation from the relevant paragraphs themselves.3 Instead, we construct our
own knowledge graph from the available CAR training data. Our approach is
based on the observation made by WikiLinks [31]: a knowledge graph can be
constructed using links in Wikipeida articles between the article’s entity and
3 We also cannot remove the evaluation topics when training the graph because that
defeats the purpose; without target entities encoded in the embeddings, there is no way to
ﬁnd similar entities when ranking.
Q1: Cheese (H1) > Nutrition (H3) and (H3) health (H3)
Q2: Medical (H1) tourism (H1) > Destinations (H2) > Europe (H2) > Finland (H3)
Unaligned
Aligned
--------------------------
--------------------------
Q1: H1 H3 H3 H3 __ __ __ __ __
H1 __ __ __ __ __ H3 H3 H3
Q2: H1 H1 H2 H2 H3 __ __ __ __
H1 H1 __ H2 H2 __ H3 __ __
Fig. 4 Example term alignment beneﬁts of using heading independence with two sample
queries. H1: query title. H2: intermediate heading. H3: main heading. __: padding.

12
Sean MacAvaney et al.
Fig. 5 Example graph construction strategy from a Wikipedia article excerpt. Red boxes
are nodes representing the corresponding entity, and yellow boxes are edge labels. Adapted
from https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cheese.
entities that the page links to. Unlike WikiLinks, we enrich our knowledge
graph by labeling the edges using heading information.
More formally, let knowledge graph G = (E, R), where E is the set of
entities, and R is the set of relations. Let E be of the union of the set of all
article topic entity and the set of all entities found in links. The set of directed
relations R is deﬁned as any pair of entities for (t, m) where t is an article topic,
and m is an entity mention in a paragraph relevant to the query. The edges
are labeled using the highest-level (non-title) heading of the paragraph. An
illustration of this process is shown in Figure 5. To address the data sparsity
problem caused by the large number of low-frequency headings, we only the
lemmatized syntactic head of the main heading. Furthermore, we combine any
edge label that doesn’t appear in the emax most frequent headings into a single
edge label. By using this approach, we are able to encode entity relations in a
way that maintains relations between high-frequency headings—precisely the
headings that need contextual hints from entities.
We use the knowledge graph G to construct HolE embeddings for the en-
tities and relations. HolE embeddings have been shown to perform the best
at entity link prediction by capturing rich interactions via circular correla-
tion [23]. First, we collect all entity mentions in the paragraph being ranked.
We collect entities from links that appear in Wikipedia paragraphs that tar-
get other articles. However, because Wikipedia guidelines suggest only linking
an entity on its ﬁrst occurrence in an article 4, we also explore using an en-
tity extractor to ﬁnd entity mentions (DBPedia Spotlight [5]). For each entity
mention, we calculate the entity similarity score, given the current query topic
entity and the current heading label. We include the top nentscores from the
4 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Manual_of_Style/Linking

Overcoming Low-Utility Facets for Complex Answer Retrieval
13
Table 3 Dataset characteristics from the v1.5 data release, including counts of automatic
(Auto.) and Manual (Man.) relevance judgments.
Relevance
Dataset
Articles
Queries
Auto.
Man.
train.fold1-2 (train)
114,387
873,746
2.2M
-
test200 (validation)
198
1,860
4.7k
-
benchmarkY1test (test)
133
2,125
5.8k
30k
paragraph during the combination phase of the model (see Figure 3d). This
is similar to how some models perform k-max pooling of query term results.
This approach diﬀers from contextual vectors because these signals refer to
the entire query-document combination, and not speciﬁc query terms.
3.4 Implementation details
We apply our methods for altering the generalized interaction-focused neural
ranking model to the PACRR model [12]. This model has been demonstrated
to be a strong approach for ad-hoc retrieval. To understand how our methods
are integrated into the system, we provide a short description of the model
architecture (see [12] for full details). For the matching phase, PACRR cal-
culates a Q × d similarity matrix between query and document terms using
word embedding similarity scores. It then performs square convolutional ﬁlters
of multiple sizes (e.g., 2 × 2, 3 × 3, etc.) over the resulting similarity matrix.
The result of these ﬁlters are max-pooled. Then, scores across query terms are
k-max pooled (k = 2) to get the top scores for each query term. Here, the
query term results are concatenated with IDF scores for each term. Finally,
the results are combined using a simple dense combination layer to produce a
ﬁnal query-document relevance score.
We include contextual vectors after the query term pooling. The vectors
are simply concatenated alongside the IDF vector. For heading independence,
we split out the work up through the query term pooling. We add an additional
dense layer here to further consolidate heading position information before the
ﬁnal combination phase. We include knowledge graph embedding scores in the
combination phase, alongside the matching scores.
4 Experiment
In this section, we describe our primary experiment using the approaches de-
scribed in Section 3 and present our results using the CAR dataset.

14
Sean MacAvaney et al.
Table
4 Manual relevance judgment counts and occurrence frequencies for bench-
markY1test.
Relevance Label
Count
%
Value
Must be mentioned
2,461
8.3%
3
Should be mentioned
1,970
6.7%
2
Can be mentioned
3,094
10.5%
1
Roughly on topic
9,219
31.2%
0
Non-relevant
12,785
43.2%
-1
Trash
42
0.1%
-2
4.1 Experimental Setup
4.1.1 Dataset
We use the oﬃcial TREC CAR dataset (version 1.5) for both training and eval-
uating our approach [7, 8]. This dataset was constructed from Wikipedia arti-
cles that represent topics (that is, it does not include meta or talk pages). All
the paragraphs are collected, disassociated with their articles and surround-
ing content, and used as the main collection for retrieval (30M paragraphs,
paragraphcorpus). The dataset also includes queries, which were automati-
cally generated from the article structure. For each query, automatic relevance
judgments are provided based on the assumption that paragraphs under a
particular heading are all valid answers to the corresponding query.
The dataset is split into subsets suitable for training and testing of sys-
tems (summary in Table 3). For a randomly-selected half of Wikipedia, all
data are provided for training (split into 5 folds, train.fold0-4). We use
folds 1 and 2 for training our models. A subset of approximately 200 articles
from train.fold0 was selected as an evaluation dataset by [22] (test200).
We use this as a validation dataset. Finally, 133 articles from the second half
of Wikipedia (the half that was not designated for training) were selected as
evaluation articles (benchmarkY1test). The TREC CAR 2017 task released
manual relevance judgments in addition to the automatic judgments available
for the other datasets [8]. The manual relevance judgments are graded on a
scale from Must be mentioned (3) to Trash (-2). A summary of the frequency of
these labels is given in Table 4. While the manual relevance judgments are con-
sidered gold standard and are capable of matching relevant paragraphs from
other articles, they only cover a subset of queries (702 of the 2,125 queries).
4.1.2 Knowledge graph embeddings
We ﬁrst generate a knowledge graph using the method described in Section 3.3.
We use the entire train.fold0-4 dataset to crease as extensive of a graph as
possible. We generate two versions of the graph: one using hyperlinks as entity
mentions, and one using entity mentions extracted using the automatic entity
extractor DBPedia Spotlight [5] with a conﬁdence setting of 0.5. Although
this tool is less accurate than manually-created links, it captures entities that

Overcoming Low-Utility Facets for Complex Answer Retrieval
15
are not linked (e.g., the Wikipedia guidelines suggest only linking the ﬁrst
mention of an entity in an article, leaving out subsequent mentions from the
graph). Edge labels are limited to only the emax = 1000 most frequently-used
labels. We test both versions of the graph when evaluating the performance
of using knowledge graph embedding scores. We train HolE embeddings using
the link graph for 5,000 iterations (we found this to be enough iterations for
the training to converge), and choose the embeddings from the epoch with the
lowest error rate. When picking which entity scores to include in the model, we
use top nnentscores = 2 similarities (this matches the document term pooling
parameter k in PACRR).
4.1.3 Training and evaluation
We train and evaluate several variations of the PACRR model to explore the ef-
fectiveness of each approach. We train each model for 80 epochs with samples
from train.fold1-2 (we found this to be adequate based on pilot experi-
ments). Automatic relevance judgments serve as a source of relevant docu-
ments, and we use the top non-relevant BM25 documents as negative training
examples. Negative samples are used for the pairwise loss function used to
train PACRR, and BM25 results oﬀer higher-quality negative samples than
random paragraph would (e.g., these examples have matching terms, whereas
random paragraphs likely would not).5 For each positive sample, we include 6
negative samples. To a point, including more negative samples has been shown
to improve the performance of PACRR at the expense of training time [16]; we
found 6 negative samples to be an eﬀective balance between the two consider-
ations. The training iteration that yields the highest R-Precision value on the
validation dataset (test200) is selected for evaluation on the test dataset. We
then rerank the top 100 BM25 results for each query in benchmarkY1test, and
test using the manual and automatic relevance judgments. For each conﬁgu-
ration, we report the 4 oﬃcial TREC CAR metrics: Mean Average Precision
(MAP), R-Precision (R-Prec), Mean Reciprocal Rank (MRR), and normalized
Discounted Cumulative Gain (nDCG). We compare the results to an unmod-
iﬁed version of PACRR trained using the same approach, the initial BM25
ranking, and the other top approaches submitted to TREC.
4.2 Results
We present the performance of our methods on CAR in Table 5. Overall, the
results show that our methods perform favorably compared to the unmodiﬁed
5 We acknowledge that some paragraphs included as negative training samples, if in-
spected manually, would be found relevant due to the limitations of the automatic relevance
judgments. We deem this as okay, considering the high occurrence of non-relevant documents
in the manual relevance judgments, and the comparatively poor performance of BM25 at
CAR.

16
Sean MacAvaney et al.
Table 5 Performance results on test using manual and automatic relevance judgments.
Manual is evaluated both including and excluding documents without relevance judgments.
The top value in each section is in bold. Records marked with * were included in the TREC
document pool. Signiﬁcant results compared to the unmodiﬁed PACRR model within each
section are marked with ▲and ▼(paired t-test, 95% conﬁdence). The abbreviations for our
methods are as follows: HP is the heading position contextual vector; HF is the heading
frequency contextual vector; HI is heading independence; KG (links) uses knowledge graph
similarity scores using entity mentions from Wikipedia links; KG (extr.) uses knowledge
graph similarity scores using entity mentions extracted automatically from the paragraph.
Approach
MAP
R-Prec
MRR
nDCG
Manual (including unjudged)
PACRR (no modiﬁcation)
0.208
0.219
0.445
0.403
PACRR + HP*
0.209
0.218
0.452
0.406
PACRR + HP + HF*
▲0.211
0.221
0.453
▲0.408
PACRR + HI
0.205
0.213
0.442
0.403
PACRR + HI + HF
0.204
0.214
0.440
0.401
PACRR + HI + HF + KG (links)
▼0.198
▼0.206
0.429
0.395
PACRR + HI + HF + KG (extr.)
0.200
▼0.206
0.433
0.396
Sequential dependence model* [15]
▼0.172
▼0.186
▼0.393
▼0.350
Siamese attention network* [19]
▼0.137
▼0.171
▼0.345
▼0.274
BM25 baseline*
▼0.138
▼0.158
▼0.317
▼0.296
Manual (excluding unjudged)
PACRR (no modiﬁcation)
0.471
0.496
0.774
0.583
PACRR + HP*
▲0.479
▲0.504
▲0.791
▲0.590
PACRR + HP + HF*
▲0.480
▲0.509
▲0.794
▲0.592
PACRR + HI
▲0.479
▲0.505
▲0.795
▲0.593
PACRR + HI + HF
▲0.479
0.499
0.782
▲0.590
PACRR + HI + HF + KG (links)
▲0.482
▲0.505
0.787
▲0.592
PACRR + HI + HF + KG (extr.)
▲0.485
▲0.505
▲0.792
▲0.594
BM25 baseline*
▼0.452
▼0.476
▼0.747
▼0.566
Automatic
PACRR (no modiﬁcation)
0.164
0.131
0.247
0.254
PACRR + HP*
▲0.170
0.135
▲0.258
▲0.260
PACRR + HP + HF*
▲0.170
0.134
▲0.255
▲0.259
PACRR + HI
▲0.171
0.139
▲0.256
▲0.260
PACRR + HI + HF
▲0.176
▲0.146
▲0.263
▲0.265
PACRR + HI + HF + KG (links)
▲0.174
▲0.141
▲0.260
▲0.263
PACRR + HI + HF + KG (extr.)
▲0.173
▲0.140
▲0.260
▲0.262
Sequential dependence model* [15]
▼0.150
▼0.116
▼0.226
▼0.238
Siamese attention network* [19]
▼0.121
▼0.096
▼0.185
▼0.175
BM25 baseline*
▼0.122
▼0.097
▼0.183
▼0.196
PACRR model, the other other top submissions to TREC CAR 2017 (sequen-
tial dependency model [15] and the Siamese attention network [19]), and the
BM25 baseline (which our method re-ranks).

Overcoming Low-Utility Facets for Complex Answer Retrieval
17
Due to the relatively low number of manual relevance judgments per query6,
we report manual relevance judgments both including and excluding unjudged
paragraphs. When unjudged paragraphs are included, they are assumed to be
irrelevant.7 When unjudged documents are excluded, we ﬁlter unjudged para-
graphs from the ranked lists (i.e., we perform a condensed list evaluation).
The condensed list evaluation is a better comparison for methods that were
not included in the evaluation pool [28]. Indeed, PACRR with the heading
position and heading frequency contextual vectors outperforms the all other
approaches, and signiﬁcantly outperforms the unmodiﬁed PACRR model in
terms of MAP and nDCG. Interestingly, the knowledge base approaches per-
form signiﬁcantly worse than the unmodiﬁed PACRR in terms of R-Prec when
unjudged paragraphs are included. However, when unjudged paragraphs are
not included, it performs signiﬁcantly better in every case. In fact, the version
that uses entity extraction when calculating entity scores performs best overall
in terms of MAP and nDCG. This shows that these approaches are eﬀective,
and likely rank paragraphs that are relevant yet unjudged high (reducing the
score when unjudged documents are included).
When considering automatic relevance judgments, heading independence
and the heading frequency contextual vector signiﬁcantly outperforms un-
modiﬁed PACRR, and performs best overall in every metric. However, the
performance when evaluating with manual judgments does not signiﬁcantly
outperform unmodiﬁed PACRR. Since training is also conducted using au-
tomatic relevance judgments, this may be caused by PACRR overﬁtting to
this sense of relevance. Interestingly, when the knowledge graphs features are
added to this approach, performance drops with automatic judgments, but
increases with manual judgments. This suggests that these features are useful
for determining human-classiﬁed relevance.
5 Analysis
In this section, we investigate several questions surrounding the results to gain
more insights into the behavior and functionality of the approaches to CAR
detailed in Section 3.
5.1 Characteristics of heading positions
Our approaches assert that heading positions (i.e., title, intermediate, and
main heading) act as a signal for heading utility. In Section 4.2 we showed
that including the heading position as either the heading position contextual
vector or via and heading independence improves performance beyond the
6 On average, there are 42 manual relevance judgments for the 702 queries that were
manually assessed.
7 Unjudged evaluation is unavailable for the sequential dependency model and Siamese
attention network.

18
Sean MacAvaney et al.
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
Density
Main
Intermediate
Title
Term occurrence rate
Fig. 6 Kernel density estimation for main (solid), intermediate (dashed), and title (dotted)
heading term occurrence rates, based on automatic judgments in train.fold0.
baseline neural architecture. Here, we test the hypothesis that terms found in
diﬀerent heading positions exhibit diﬀerent behaviors in relevant documents.
We use the term occurrence rate to assist in this analysis. We deﬁne term
occurrence rate occ(h) for a given heading h as the probability that any term
in a given heading appears in relevant paragraphs. More formally:
occ(h) =
P
p∈rel(h) I(∃t ∈p|t ∈h)
|rel(h)|
where rel(h) is the set of relevant paragraphs for p and I is the indicator func-
tion. Although the term occurrence rate only accounts for a single binary term
match within relevant documents, this assumption is justiﬁed by the fact that
headings are usually terse, and the neural architecture we use only considers
the top 2 matches for each query term for ranking purposes (PACRR’s query
term pooling).
In Figure 6, we plot a kernel density estimation of term occurrence distri-
butions for each heading position. We use all topics from the training dataset,
and calculate term occurrence rates using automatic relevance judgments. The
ﬁgure shows that main headings are much more likely to appear in relevant
documents than titles and intermediate headings, with a much higher density
at the term occurrence rate of 1. This matches our prediction that main head-
ings are more likely to be topical, and therefore appear in relevant documents.
Furthermore, the distributions of intermediate and title headings are roughly
opposite each other, with titles more likely to occur than intermediate head-
ings. Note that, due to the hierarchical nature of CAR queries, intermediate
headings also appear as main headings in other queries for the same topic.
This contributes to the high frequency of main headings with a term occur-
rence rate of 0. Furthermore, many main headings are only used in a single
article (i.e., only appear once in the Wikipedia collection), with only a handful
of paragraphs associated with them. This explains the multi-modal distribu-
tion seen for main headings; the small denominators result in local maxima
near 0.33, 0.5, and 0.67.

Overcoming Low-Utility Facets for Complex Answer Retrieval
19
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
Heading frequency
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Term occurrence rate
Fig. 7 Term occurrence rate plotted by heading frequency. Heading frequency is grouped
and averaged by 100 for clarity. The area of each point is proportional to the number
of heading instances used to calculate the term occurrence rate. One very high frequency
heading (History) was omitted for clarity (heading frequency: 15,220, term occurrence rate:
0.035). The trend shows that low-frequency headings are more likely to appear verbatim in
relevant paragraphs than high-frequency headings.
5.2 Characteristics of high-frequency headings
In Section 4.2, we showed that including the heading frequency contextual
vector improved retrieval performance. We predicted that the model is able
to use this information to predict which query terms are likely to appear in
relevant documents. To investigate this behavior, we look at whether heading
frequency is correlated with term occurrence rates, and whether there is a
performance gap between low- and high-frequency headings.
In Figure 7, we plot term occurrence rates by heading frequency. The ﬁg-
ure only includes headings that occur at least twice in train.fold0, and we
remove the extremely-frequent heading ‘History’ to improve readability, and
points are binned with a size of 100. The area of each point is proportional
to the number of heading instances. It is clear from the ﬁgure that the less
frequent a heading is, the higher the term occurrence rate. In general, head-
ings with a frequency less than 1,000 have an average heading frequency 10-20
points higher than higher-frequency headings.

20
Sean MacAvaney et al.
Table 6 MAP scores stratiﬁed by heading frequency of main heading for each query (man-
ual relevance judgments, excluding unjudged). Infrequent headings that do not appear else-
where in the dataset are included in the ‘Infrq.’ column. The approaches yield the highest
performance improvement on the high-frequency (low-utility) queries.
Model
Infrq.
0-20%
20-40%
40-60%
60-80%
80-100%
PACRR (unmod.)
0.503
0.521
0.453
0.388
0.412
0.366
+ HP
0.509
0.520
0.464
0.400
0.430
0.377
+ HP + HF
0.511
0.519
0.470
0.406
0.417
0.383
+ HI
0.509
0.525
0.479
0.382
0.417
0.391
+ HI + HF
0.509
0.519
0.474
0.403
0.409
0.379
+ HI + HF + KG (links)
0.511
0.529
0.475
0.412
0.408
0.376
+ HI + HF + KG (extr.)
0.513
0.535
0.477
0.416
0.407
0.380
BM25
0.482
0.480
0.429
0.378
0.420
0.373
Query count
349
89
96
81
43
44
Max. % increase (to unmod.)
+2.0%
+2.7%
+5.7%
+7.2%
+4.3%
+6.8%
5.3 Diﬃcultly matching high-frequency headings
Given the knowledge that high-frequency headings generally exhibit a low
term occurrence rate, we are interested in measuring whether there exists a
discrepancy between the performance at diﬀerent heading frequencies. Table 6
shows a MAP 8 performance breakdown on the test dataset (manual relevance
judgments, unjudged excluded) stratiﬁed by the heading frequency of the main
heading found in the training dataset. The number of queries in each stratum
varies because the strata were selected from equally-spaced breakpoints in
the training data, and the test set does not represent a uniform selection
of Wikipedia articles. The most frequent headings (80-100%, e.g., ‘History’
and ‘Early Life’) and exhibit the worst performance among all strata. This
matches our intuition that these low-utility headings are diﬃcult to match.
The low frequency headings exhibit the highest performance by all models.
Notice that the gains compared to the unmodiﬁed PACRR are higher for
high-frequency headings than the low frequency headings, despite having a
worse performance overall. This validates our claims that low-utility headings
are harder to match than high-utility headings, and that our approaches are
able to improve performance for these queries.
6 Conclusion
In this work, we proposed that a central challenge to CAR is the identiﬁcation
and mitigation of low-utility question facets. We introduced two techniques
for identifying low-utility facets: contextual vectors based on the hierarchi-
cal structure of CAR questions and corpus-wide facet usage information; and
8 We observed similar behavior for MAP, R-Prec, MRR, and nDCG, so we only report
MAP here.

Overcoming Low-Utility Facets for Complex Answer Retrieval
21
incorporation of independent matching pipelines for separate query compo-
nents. We then introduced one approach to mitigate low-utility facets, which
involves building a knowledge graph from the CAR training data, and using
entity similarity scores during query processing. We applied these approaches
to a leading neural ranking method, and evaluated using the TREC CAR
dataset. We found that our approach improved performance when compared
to the unmodiﬁed version of the ranker, and improve performance by up to
26% compared to the next best approach. We then performed an analysis that
veriﬁed that our indicators of facet utility were valuable, and that our ap-
proaches improve the performance on low-utility headings. As one of the ﬁrst
comprehensive works on CAR, we expect our ﬁndings to shape the directions
taken for CAR in the future.
References
1. Auer S., Bizer C., Kobilarov G., Lehmann J., Cyganiak R., Ives Z. G.
(2007) DBpedia: A nucleus for a web of open data. In: ISWC/ASWC
2. Bollacker K. D., Evans C., Paritosh P., Sturge T., Taylor J. (2008) Free-
base: a collaboratively created graph database for structuring human
knowledge. In: SIGMOD 2008
3. Bordes A., Usunier N., García-Durán A., Weston J., Yakhnenko O. (2013)
Translating embeddings for modeling multi-relational data. In: NIPS 2013
4. Dai Z., Xiong C., Callan J. P., Liu Z. (2018) Convolutional neural networks
for soft-matching n-grams in ad-hoc search. In: WSDM 2018
5. Daiber J., Jakob M., Hokamp C., Mendes P. N. (2013) Improving eﬃciency
and accuracy in multilingual entity extraction. In: Proceedings of the 9th
International Conference on Semantic Systems (I-Semantics)
6. Dalton J., Dietz L., Allan J. (2014) Entity query feature expansion using
knowledge base links. In: SIGIR 2014, ACM
7. Dietz L., Gamari B. (2017) TREC CAR: A data set for complex answer
retrieval (version 1.5) URL http://trec-car.cs.unh.edu
8. Dietz L., Verma M., Radlinski F., Craswell N. (2017) TREC complex
answer retrieval overview. In: TREC 2017
9. Guo J., Fan Y., Ai Q., Croft W. B. (2016) A deep relevance matching
model for ad-hoc retrieval. In: CIKM 2016
10. Heilman J. M., West A. G. (2015) Wikipedia and medicine: quantifying
readership, editors, and the signiﬁcance of natural language. Journal of
medical Internet research 17(3)
11. Huang P.-S., He X., Gao J., Deng L., Acero A., Heck L. (2013) Learning
deep structured semantic models for web search using clickthrough data.
In: CIKM 2013
12. Hui K., Yates A., Berberich K., de Melo G. (2017) PACRR: A position-
aware neural IR model for relevance matching. In: EMNLP 2017
13. Hui K., Yates A., Berberich K., de Melo G. (2018) Co-PACRR: A context-
aware neural IR model for ad-hoc retrieval. In: WSDM 2018

22
Sean MacAvaney et al.
14. Levy O., Goldberg Y. (2014) Dependency-based word embeddings. In:
ACL 2014
15. Lin X., Lam W. (2017) CUIS team for TREC 2017 CAR track. In: TREC
2017
16. MacAvaney S., Hui K., Yates A. (2017) An approach for weakly-supervised
deep information retrieval. NeuIR@SIGIR 2017
17. MacAvaney S., Yates A., Hui K. (2017) Contextualized PACRR for com-
plex answer retrieval. In: TREC 2017
18. MacAvaney S., Yates A., Cohan A., Soldaini L., Hui K., Goharian N.,
Frieder O. (2018) Characterizing question facets for complex answer re-
trieval. In: SIGIR 2018
19. Maldonado R., Taylor S., Harabagiu S. M. (2017) UTD HLTRI at TREC
2017: Complex answer retrieval track. In: TREC 2017
20. Metzler D., Croft W. B. (2005) A markov random ﬁeld model for term
dependencies. In: SIGIR 2005
21. Mitra B., Diaz F., Craswell N. (2017) Learning to match using local and
distributed representations of text for web search. In: WWW 2017
22. Nanni F., Mitra B., Magnusson M., Dietz L. (2017) Benchmark for com-
plex answer retrieval. In: ICTIR 2017
23. Nickel M., Rosasco L., Poggio T. A. (2016) Holographic embeddings of
knowledge graphs. In: AAAI 2016
24. Nogueira R., Cho K. (2017) Task-oriented query reformulation with rein-
forcement learning. In: EMNLP 2017
25. Nogueira R., Cho K., Patel U., Chabot V. (2017) New york university
submission to TREC-CAR 2017. In: TREC 2017
26. Pang L., Lan Y., Guo J., Xu J., Cheng X. (2016) A study of MatchPyramid
models on ad-hoc retrieval. In: NeuIR at SIGIR 2016
27. Pang L., Lan Y., Guo J., Xu J., Xu J., Cheng X. (2017) DeepRank: A
new deep architecture for relevance ranking in information retrieval. In:
CIKM 2017
28. Sakai T., Kando N. (2008) On information retrieval metrics designed for
evaluation with incomplete relevance assessments. Information Retrieval
11(5):447–470
29. Schuhmacher M., Dietz L., Ponzetto S. P. (2015) Ranking entities for web
queries through text and knowledge. In: CIKM
30. Singh A. (2012) Entity based q&a retrieval. In: EMNLP-CoNLL
31. Singh S., Subramanya A., Pereira F., McCallum A. (2012) Wikilinks:
A large-scale cross-document coreference corpus labeled via links to
wikipedia. University of Massachusetts, Amherst, Tech Rep UM-CS-2012
15
32. Wang Z., Zhang J., Feng J., Chen Z. (2014) Knowledge graph embedding
by translating on hyperplanes. In: AAAI 2014
33. Xiong C., Callan J. (2015) Query expansion with Freebase. In: ICTIR
2015, ACM
34. Xiong C., Dai Z., Callan J., Liu Z., Power R. (2017) End-to-End Neural
Ad-hoc Ranking with Kernel Pooling. In: SIGIR 2017, ACM

Overcoming Low-Utility Facets for Complex Answer Retrieval
23
35. tau Yih W., Chang M.-W., He X., Gao J. (2015) Semantic parsing via
staged query graph generation: Question answering with knowledge base.
In: ACL 2015