Bibliometric-enhanced Information Retrieval:  
2nd International BIR Workshop 
Philipp Mayr*, Ingo Frommholz**, Andrea Scharnhorst, Peter Mutschke* 
* GESIS – Leibniz Institute for the Social Sciences, Unter Sachsenhausen 6-8, 50667 Cologne, 
Germany 
philipp.mayr@gesis.org 
 
** Department of Computer Science and Technology, University of Bedfordshire, Luton, UK 
ingo.frommholz@beds.ac.uk 
Abstract. This workshop brings together experts of communities which often 
have been perceived as different once: bibliometrics / scientometrics / informet-
rics on the one side and information retrieval on the other. Our motivation as 
organizers of the workshop started from the observation that main discourses in 
both fields are different, that communities are only partly overlapping and from 
the belief that a knowledge transfer would be profitable for both sides. Biblio-
metric techniques are not yet widely used to enhance retrieval processes in digi-
tal libraries, although they offer value-added effects for users. On the other side, 
more and more information professionals, working in libraries and archives are 
confronted with applying bibliometric techniques in their services. This way 
knowledge exchange becomes more urgent. The first workshop set the research 
agenda, by introducing in each other methods, reporting about current research 
problems and brainstorming about common interests. This follow-up workshop 
continues the overall communication, but also puts one problem into the focus. 
In particular, we will explore how statistical modelling of scholarship can im-
prove retrieval services for specific communities, as well as for large, cross-
domain collections like Mendeley or ResearchGate. This second BIR workshop 
continues to raise awareness of the missing link between Information Retrieval 
(IR) and bibliometrics and contributes to create a common ground for the in-
corporation of bibliometric-enhanced services into retrieval at the scholarly 
search engine interface.  
Keywords: Bibliometrics, Scientometrics, Informetrics, Information Retrieval, 
Digital Libraries 
1 
Introduction 
IR and bibliometrics go a long way back. Many pioneers in bibliometrics actually 
came from the field of IR, which is one of the traditional branches of information 
science (see e.g. White and McCain, 1998). IR as a technique stays at the beginning 

of any scientometric1 exploration, and so IR belongs to the portfolio of skills for any 
bibliometrician / scientometrician. Used in evaluations, the bibliometric techniques 
stand and fall with the reliability of identifying sets of work in a field or for an institu-
tion. Used in information seeking in large scale of bodies of information, those bibli-
ometric techniques can help to guide the attention of the user to a possible core of 
information in the wider retrieved body of knowledge. 
However, IR and bibliometrics as special scientific fields have also grown apart over 
the last decades, and with today’s ‘big data’ document collections that bring together 
aspects of crowdsourcing, recommendation, interactive retrieval and social networks, 
there is a growing interest to revisit IR and bibliometrics again to provide cutting-
edge solutions that help satisfying the complex, diverse and long-term information 
needs scientific information seekers have. This has been manifesting itself in well-
attended combined recent workshops like “Computational Scientometrics” (held at 
iConference 2013 and CIKM 2013), “Combining Bibliometrics and Information Re-
trieval”2 (at the ISSI conference 2013) and last year's ECIR BIR workshop. It became 
obvious that there is a growing awareness that exploring links between bibliometric 
techniques and IR is beneficial for both communities (e.g. Wolfram, 2015; Abbasi 
and Frommholz, 2015). The workshops also made apparent that substantial future 
work in this direction depends on an ongoing awareness rise in both communities, 
manifesting itself in concrete experiments/exploration in existing retrieval engines.  
There is also a growing importance of combining bibliometrics and information re-
trieval in real-life applications (see Jack et al., 2014), for instance concerning the 
monitoring of developments in an area in time. Another example is providing services 
that support researchers in keeping up-to-date with their field by means of recom-
mendation and interactive search, for instance in ‘researcher workbenches’ like Men-
deley / ResearchGate or search engines like Google Scholar that utilize large biblio-
metric collections. We hope this workshop will contribute to the identification and 
further exploration of applications and solutions that bring together both communities. 
The first bibliometric-enhanced Information Retrieval (BIR) workshop3 at the ECIR 
2014 (Mayr et al., 2014a) has attracted more than 40 participants (mainly from aca-
demia) and resulted in three very interactive paper sessions (Mayr et al., 2014b) with 
lively discussions and future actions. We will build on this experience for the BIR 
2015 workshop4. Meanwhile a special issue on “Combining Bibliometrics and Infor-
mation Retrieval” in Scientometrics edited by Philipp Mayr and Andrea Scharnhorst 
(Mayr and Scharnhorst, 2015) brings together eight papers from experts from biblio-
metrics / scientometrics / informetrics on the one side and IR on the other. 
                                                          
1 The words bibliometrics, and scientometrics, sometimes even informetrics are used alterna-
tively. While often used interchangeable, scientometrics usually is broader and also includes 
studies of expenditures, education, institutions, in short all metrics and indicators occurring 
in quantitative studies of the science system. 
2 http://www.gesis.org/en/events/events-archive/conferences/issiworkshop2013/ 
3 http://www.gesis.org/en/events/events-archive/conferences/ecirworkshop2014/ 
4 http://www.gesis.org/en/events/events-archive/conferences/ecirworkshop2015/ 

2 
Goals, Objectives and Outcomes 
Our workshop proposal aims to engage with the IR community about possible links 
to bibliometrics and complex network theory which also explores networks of schol-
arly communication. Bibliometric techniques are not yet widely used to enhance re-
trieval processes in digital libraries, yet they offer value-added effects for users 
(Mutschke, et al., 2011). To give an example, recent approaches have shown the pos-
sibilities of alternative ranking methods based on citation analysis leading to an en-
hanced IR. Our interests include information retrieval, information seeking, science 
modelling, network analysis, and digital libraries. The goal is to apply insights from 
bibliometrics, scientometrics, and informetrics to concrete, practical problems of in-
formation retrieval and browsing. More specifically, we ask questions such as: 
 How can we build scholarly information systems that explicitly use bibliometric 
measures at the user interface?  
 How can models of science be interrelated with scholarly, task-oriented searching? 
 How to combine classical IR (with emphasis on recall and weak associations) with 
more rigid bibliometric recommendations? 
 How to develop evaluation schemes without being caught in too costly setting up 
large scale experimentation?  
 How to combine tools developed in bibliometrics as CitNetExplorer or Science of 
Science (Sci2) tool with IR?  
 And the other way around: Can insights from searching also improve the underly-
ing statistical models themselves? 
3 
Format and Structure of the Workshop 
The workshop will start with an inspirational keynote to kick-start thinking and dis-
cussion on the workshop topic. This will be followed by paper presentations in a for-
mat found to be successful at EuroHCIR 2013 and 2014: each paper is presented as a 
10 minute lightning talk and discussed for 20 minutes in groups among the workshop 
participants followed by 1-minute pitches from each group on the main issues dis-
cussed and lessons learned. The workshop will conclude with a round-robin discus-
sion of how to progress in enhancing IR with bibliometric methods. 
4 
Audience 
The audiences (or clients) of IR and bibliometrics are different. Traditional IR 
serves individual information needs, and is – consequently – embedded in libraries, 
archives and collections alike. Scientometrics, and with it bibliometric techniques, has 
matured serving science policy. We propose a half-day workshop that should bring 
together IR and DL researchers with an interest in bibliometric-enhanced approaches. 
Our interests include information retrieval, information seeking, science modelling, 
network analysis, and digital libraries. The goal is to apply insights from bibliomet-

rics, scientometrics, and informetrics to concrete, practical problems of information 
retrieval and browsing. The workshop is closely related to the BIR workshop at ECIR 
2014 and tries to bring together contributions from core bibliometricians and core IR 
specialists but having selected those which already operate on the interface between 
scientometrics and IR. In this workshop we focus more on real experimentation (incl. 
demos) and industrial participation. 
5 
Output 
The papers presented at the BIR workshop 2014 have been published in the online 
proceedings http://ceur-ws.org/Vol-1143/. Another output of our BIR initiative has 
been organized after the ISSI 2013 workshop on “Combining Bibliometrics and In-
formation Retrieval” as a special issue in Scientometrics (see Mayr and Scharnhorst, 
2015). We aim with the proposed workshop for a similar dissemination strategy, but 
now oriented towards core IR. This way we build a sequence of explorations, visions, 
results documented in scholarly discourse, and building up enough material for a sus-
tainable bridge between bibliometrics and IR. 
References 
1. 
Abbasi, M. K., & Frommholz, I. (2015). Cluster-based Polyrepresentation as Science 
Modelling Approach for Information Retrieval. Scientometrics. doi:10.1007/s11192-014-
1478-1 
2. 
Jack, K., López-García, P., Hristakeva, M., & Kern, R. (2014). {{citation needed}}: Fill-
ing in Wikipedia’s Citation Shaped Holes. In Bibliometric-enhanced Information Retriev-
al, ECIR. Amsterdam. Retrieved from http://ceur-ws.org/Vol-1143/paper6.pdf 
3. 
Mayr, P., Schaer, P., Scharnhorst, A., & Mutschke, P. (2014b). Editorial for the Biblio-
metric-enhanced Information Retrieval Workshop at ECIR 2014. In P. Mayr et al. (Ed.), 
Proceedings of the First Workshop on Bibliometric-enhanced Information Retrieval (pp. 
1–4). Amsterdam, NL. Retrieved from http://ceur-ws.org/Vol-1143/editorial.pdf 
4. 
Mayr, P., & Scharnhorst, A. (2015). Scientometrics and Information Retrieval - weak-
links revitalized. Scientometrics. doi:10.1007/s11192-014-1484-3 
5. 
Mayr, P., Scharnhorst, A., Larsen, B., Schaer, P., & Mutschke, P. (2014a). Bibliometric-
enhanced Information Retrieval. In M. et al. de Rijke (Ed.), 36th European Conference on 
IR Research, ECIR 2014, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, April 13-16, 2014. Proceedings 
(pp. 798–801). Springer International Publishing. doi:10.1007/978-3-319-06028-6_99 
6. 
Mutschke, P., Mayr, P., Schaer, P., & Sure, Y. (2011). Science models as value-added 
services 
for 
scholarly 
information 
systems. 
Scientometrics, 
89(1), 
349–364. 
doi:10.1007/s11192-011-0430-x 
7. 
White, H. D., & McCain, K. W. (1998). Visualizing a discipline: An author co-citation 
analysis of information science, 1972–1995. Journal of the American Society for Infor-
mation Science, 49, 327–355.  
8. 
Wolfram, D. (2015). The Symbiotic Relationship Between Information Retrieval and 
Informetrics. Scientometrics. doi:10.1007/s11192-014-1479-0