arXiv:2504.14689v1  [cs.HC]  20 Apr 2025
Designing AI Systems that Augment Human Performed vs. Demonstrated
Critical Thinking
KATELYN XIAOYING MEI, University of Washington, USA
NIC WEBER, University of Washington, USA
The recent rapid advancement of LLM-based AI systems has accelerated our search and production of information. While the ad-
vantages brought by these systems seemingly improve the performance or eﬃciency of human activities, they do not necessarily
enhance human capabilities. Recent research has started to examine the impact of generative AI on individuals’ cognitive abilities,
especially critical thinking. Based on deﬁnitions of critical thinking across psychology and education, this position paper proposes
the distinction between demonstrated and performed critical thinking in the era of generative AI and discusses the implication of this
distinction in research and development of AI systems that aim to augment human critical thinking.
CCS Concepts: • Human-centered computing →Human computer interaction (HCI); • Computing methodologies →Ar-
tiﬁcial intelligence;
Additional Key Words and Phrases: Critical Thinking, Intelligence Augmentation, Social Implications of Technological Design
ACM Reference Format:
Katelyn Xiaoying Mei and Nic Weber. 2025. Designing AI Systems that Augment Human Performed vs. Demonstrated Critical Think-
ing. 1, 1 (April 2025), 6 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/nnnnnnn.nnnnnnn
1
INTRODUCTION
Generative AI (GenAI) powered by large language models (LLMs) has boosted productivity in tasks such as writing,
coding, information analysis, and decision-making. However, these purported gains in eﬃciency do not always result
in better task outcomes or human performance. In addition, the use of these systems could potentially undermine hu-
man capabilities as people develop an overreliance on AI systems for tasks ranging from simple to complex [4, 14]. For
example, while tools like GitHub Copilot may increase coding quality and eﬃciency [23], the mechanism of autocom-
plete does not inherently enhance individuals’ programming skills or understanding [17]. Similarly, while ChatGPT and
similar LLMs can increase the speed and improve the ﬂuency of writing deliverables, they do not necessarily improve
individuals’ inherent writing abilities and potentially resulting in biased outcomes and content lack of depth[13, 19].
Amidst these ﬁndings, we consider the current landscape of AI tools reveals a concerning pattern: the design of AI
systems is often output-driven yet overlooks its impact on human cognitive capabilities. Recent research has started
to pay attention to how generative AI (GenAI) impacts individuals’ critical thinking and researchers have found mixed
This paper was presented at the 2025 ACM Workshop on Human-AI Interaction for Augmented Reasoning (AIREASONING-2025-01). This is the authors’
version for arXiv.
Authors’ addresses: Katelyn Xiaoying Mei, kmei@uw.edu, University of Washington, , Seattle, WA, USA, ; Nic Weber, nmweber@uw.edu, University of
Washington, , Seattle, WA, USA, .
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not
made or distributed for proﬁt or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the ﬁrst page. Copyrights for components
of this work owned by others than ACM must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or
to redistribute to lists, requires prior speciﬁc permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
© 2025 Association for Computing Machinery.
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Manuscript submitted to ACM
1

2
Mei et al.
ﬁndings [1, 3, 12, 15, 16]. Based on this line of work, this position paper proposes a distinction between performed
critical thinking and demonstrated critical thinking. In the context of human-AI interaction, we deﬁne performed critical
thinking as cognitive process undertaken by humans independent of AI assistance. In contrast, demonstrated critical
thinking refers to either the process or product of critical thinking that occurs through the assistance of or collaboration
with generative AI systems.
These distinctions are important since the choice of interpretation could lead to diﬀerent implications for i) research
that examines the impact of generative AI on critical thinking and ii) divergent design objectives for AI systems to
augment human critical thinking. We identify that current evaluation on the impact of GenAI on critical thinking skills
often focuses on demonstrated rather than performed critical thinking and provide considerations for future research
designs. Drawing insight from the intellect augmentation framework conceptualized by Douglas Engelbart [6], we
argue that while current AI systems and interaction paradigms may enhance the demonstrated critical thinking, they
do not necessarily improve the performed critical thinking. We also discuss design considerations to accomplish the
latter.
2
DEFINITION AND EVALUATION OF CRITICAL THINKING
Critical thinking has been conceptualized through various frameworks over decades of research in education and psy-
chology [2, 7, 18]. Its deﬁnition varies from a general deﬁnition to a procedural process. Ennis [7] describes critical
thinking as the correct assessing of statements. Scriven and Paul [18] deﬁne it as a “a disciplined process that actively
and skillfully conceptualize, apply, analyze, synthesize, and evaluate information gathered from or generated by obser-
vation, experience, reﬂection, reasoning or communication, to guide one’s belief and action”. Similarly focusing on the
process, Bloom et al. [2] identiﬁes six cognitive activities that occur during critical thinking: knowledge, comprehension,
application, analysis, synthesis, and evaluation. The deﬁnitions by Ennis [7] and Scriven and Paul [18] align with what
we term performed critical thinking—independent cognitive processes without external assistance. Yet all components
within the deﬁnition by Bloom et al. [2] can be either performed independently or demonstrated through human-AI
collaboration.
Researchers in psychology and education have adopted various quantitative and qualitative approaches to evaluate
critical thinking [4, 5]. Via a quantitative approach, researchers develop standardized tests or instruments [8–10, 22]. In
qualitative assessment, researchers such as open-ended questions and augmentative writing, as well as online discus-
sion [20, 24]. Across these tools, some tend to measure critical disposition [8]—the tendency to think critically—whereas
the others measure performance or application of critical thinking [22]. To examine the latter, Watson and Glaser [22]
asks students to read scenarios of statements and arguments and make judgments on speciﬁc inferences, assumptions,
deductions, conclusions based on each scenario. Since these traditional assessment are designed to evaluate individuals’
capabilities in situations where AI assistance is not present, we consider that they measure performed critical thinking.
However, qualitative assessment could be used to measure demonstrated critical thinking if we evaluate individuals’
responses to open-ended questions and argumentative writing that are produced together with AI assistance.
3
EVALUATING THE IMPACT OF GENERATIVE AI ON PERFORMED VS. DEMONSTRATED CRITICAL
THINKING
Recent research raises questions about how generative AI aﬀects individuals’ critical thinking abilities [3, 11, 12, 15].
Current research often conﬂates performed and demonstrated critical thinking by primarily assessing the latter rather
than the former. For example, recent studies that suggest the use of GenAI improves critical thinking evaluate only
Manuscript submitted to ACM

Designing AI Systems that Augment Human Performed vs. Demonstrated Critical Thinking
3
Table 1. Cognitive activities defined in Bloom’s taxonomy [2, 15].
Cognitive activity
Description
Knowledge
Recognition or recall of ideas, material, or phenomena
Comprehension
Organising, summarising, translating, generalising, giving descriptions, and
stating the main ideas
Application
Using acquired knowledge to solve problems in new situations
Analysis
Examining and breaking information into component parts, determining how
the parts relate to one another, identifying motives or causes, making infer-
ences, and ﬁnding evidence to support generalisations
Synthesis
Building a structure or pattern from diverse elements; putting parts together to
form a whole or bringing pieces of information together to form a new mean-
ing
Evaluation
Presenting and defending opinions by making judgements about information,
the validity of ideas, or quality of work based on a set of criteria
the ﬁnal outputs (e.g., written responses) that participants produce with AI assistance [3, 12]. Such methodologies
fail to measure whether individuals’ performed critical thinking has improved. We encourage future research to adopt
methodologies that can distinctly evaluate both forms of critical thinking. To robustly assess the impact of AI on criti-
cal thinking abilities, researchers should implement study designs that assess participants’ performed critical thinking.
For example, several studies have used quasi-experiments or interventions to evaluate whether the usage of ChatGPT
impacts students’ critical thinking abilities where students’ critical thinking is assessed before and after the interven-
tions Alarcón-López et al. [1], Liu and Wang [16]. Cui and Zhao [4] conduct a qualitative assessment of students’
dialogue in a classroom setting. Future research should also consider longitudinal frameworks that track changes in
independent cognitive abilities over time.
4
AUGMENTING PERFORMED VS. DEMONSTRATED CRITICAL THINKING
Designing technology to augment human capabilities has been one of the major objectives of technology development.
In 1962, Engelbart [6] presents the intellect augmentation framework to delineate how we can design artifacts to
augment human capabilities. He considers augmentation is achieved if humans are more eﬃcient in ﬁnding better
solutions to complex problems. Engelbart [6] indicates that there are processes (”little steps or actions”) that take place
in humans’ problem solving.
Intellect augmentation can be accomplished by making any of these processes eﬃcient and better. It is worth noting
that within his framework, intellect augmentation is not of human but of a system where humans with augmenta-
tion means—which he referred as “H-LAM/T”system (Humans using Language, Artifacts, and Methodology). Detailed
description of each component is included in Table 2.
While Engelbart’s framework provides an insightful road map for intellect augmentation, the rapid evolution of
AI and intelligent technologies has necessitated expanding these foundational ideas. Xia and Maes [25] provides a
new interpretation of intellect that goes beyond problem solving, extending it to other cognitive domains of human
capabilities such as memory, motivation, and decision making. Building upon the intellect augmentation framework,
they derive steps for designing artifacts that support augmentation of diﬀerent cognitive domains: 1) consider the
Manuscript submitted to ACM

4
Mei et al.
desired state after augmentation; 2) identify the processes for the task; 3) identify how artifacts can change a process or
processes.
Based on these augmentation frameworks, we interpret what it means to augment human critical thinking via AI
systems. To augment critical thinking, the distinction between performed and demonstrated critical thinking presents
diﬀerent design paths for AI systems. Augmenting demonstrated critical thinking focuses on the quality of the
ﬁnal output or collaborative process that is associated with individuals’ critical thinking. Augmenting performed
critical thinking emphasizes the improvement of independent critical thinking activity after the interaction with AI
systems. Building upon the deﬁnition of Bloom et al. [2] for critical thinking, augmentation of demonstrated critical
thinking can be accomplished by improving the ﬁnal output associated with any of the components (e.g. knowledge,
comprehension, application, analysis, synthesis, evaluation). For example, current conversational AI systems can explain
complex concepts to individuals, enabling more eﬃcient and rapid comprehension, thus augmentation is accomplished.
Yet it does not necessarily augment individuals’ performed comprehension skill. On the contrary, overrelying on AI
assistance to comprehend complex concepts may negatively impact individuals’ independent comprehension capability
as they practice it less on their own.
Both forms of augmentation serve important but distinct purposes in human-AI collaboration. Augmenting demon-
strated critical thinking may be particularly valuable in time-sensitive contexts, collaborative workﬂows, or when
addressing highly complex problems that exceed individual cognitive capacity. Meanwhile, augmenting performed
critical thinking becomes essential for long-term skill development, educational settings, and maintaining human au-
tonomy in reasoning. To cultivate performed critical thinking, AI systems need to train and empower users to practice
high-quality critical thinking independently. We encourage future research to draw insight from research in educa-
tion and learning to identify eﬀective interactive paradigms or features that scaﬀold critical thinking processes rather
than simply delivering conclusions. For example, numerous work in education research identify the eﬀective use of
questioning, classroom debates, and writing could promote critical thinking in students [21]. Future research could ex-
plore similar strategies—such as providing structured frameworks, guiding questions without resolving the analytical
process completely— could support users in developing their own critical thinking skills.
Table 2. Augmentation Means within the Intellect Augmentation Framework by Engelbart [6]
Augmentation Means
Description
Artifacts
Physical objects designed to provide for human comfort, for the manipulation
of things or materials, and for the manipulation of symbols.
Language
The way in which the individual parcels out the picture of his world into the
concepts that his mind uses to model that world, and the symbols that he at-
taches to those concepts and uses in consciously manipulating the concepts
("thinking").
Methodology
The methods, procedures, strategies, etc., with which an individual organizes
his goal-centered (problem-solving) activity.
Training
The conditioning needed by the human being to bring his skills in using Means
1, 2, and 3 to the point where they are operationally eﬀective.
Manuscript submitted to ACM

Designing AI Systems that Augment Human Performed vs. Demonstrated Critical Thinking
5
5
CONCLUSION
The rapid development and integration of AI systems in our everyday lives raises questions not only for their impact on
human cognitive abilities but also for established concepts and methodologies in research. Focusing on critical thinking,
this position paper identiﬁes the need to further distinguish types of critical thinking in the era of AI: performed versus
demonstrated critical thinking. Via such distinction, we discuss the nuances in current research ﬁndings regarding the
impact of AI systems on human critical thinking, calling for explicit considerations of this distinction in future studies.
More importantly, such a distinction implicates our design of AI systems to augment critical thinking. We encourage
researchers and developers to keep this distinction in mind as systems that augment demonstrated critical thinking are
not the same as those that augment performed critical thinking.
REFERENCES
[1] Claudia Alarcón-López, Pius Krütli, and Denis Gillet. 2024. Assessing ChatGPT’s Inﬂuence on CriticalThinking in Sustainability Oriented Activities.
In 2024 IEEE Global Engineering Education Conference (EDUCON). 1–10. https://doi.org/10.1109/EDUCON60312.2024.10578790
[2] Benjamin S Bloom, Max D Engelhart, EJ Furst, Walker H Hill, and David R Krathwohl. 1956. Handbook I: cognitive domain. New York: David
McKay (1956), 483–498.
[3] Ching-Yi Chang, Hui-Chen Lin, Chengjiu Yin, and Kai-Hsiang Yang. 2025. Generative AI-assisted reﬂective writing for improving students’ higher
order thinking. Educational Technology & Society 28, 1 (2025), 270–285.
[4] Ruiguo Cui and Lili Zhao. 2024. Assessing Students’ Critical Thinking in Dialogue. Journal of Intelligence 12, 11 (2024), 106.
[5] Sara Beth Elson, Robert O. Hartman, Adam Beatty, Matthew J. Trippe, Kerry W. Buckley, John Bornmann, Elaine M. Bochniewicz, Mark Lehner,
Liliya Korenovska, Jessica Lee, Leslie D. Servi, Alison Dingwall, Paul Edward Lehner, Maurita Soltis, Mark Brown, Brandon Beltz, and Amber M
Sprenger. 2018. Critical Analytic Thinking Skills: Do They Predict Job-Related Task Performance Above and Beyond General Intelligence? Public
Administration and Development 1 (2018), 2. https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:4951887
[6] Douglas C Engelbart. 2023. Augmenting human intellect: A conceptual framework. In Augmented Education in the Global Age. Routledge, 13–29.
[7] Robert H Ennis. 1962. A concept of critical thinking. Harvard educational review.
[8] P Facione, Noreen Facione, and Carol Giancarlo. 2001. California critical thinking disposition inventory: Inventory manual. Millbrae. CA: Insight
Assessment (2001).
[9] John Follman, Carolyn Lavely, and Neal Berger. 1996. Inventory of instruments of critical thinking. Informal Logic 18, 2 (1996).
[10] Tina Gerdts-Andresen, Mette Tindvik Hansen, and Vigdis Abrahamsen Grøndahl. 2022. Educational Eﬀectiveness: Validation of an Instrument to
Measure Students’ Critical Thinking and Disposition. International Journal of Instruction 15, 1 (2022), 685–700.
[11] Michael Gerlich. 2025. AI Tools in Society: Impacts on Cognitive Oﬄoading and the Future of Critical Thinking. Societies 15, 1 (Jan. 2025), 6.
https://doi.org/10.3390/soc15010006 Number: 1 Publisher: Multidisciplinary Digital Publishing Institute.
[12] Chahna Gonsalves. 2024. Generative AI’s Impact on Critical Thinking: Revisiting Bloom’s Taxonomy. Journal of Marketing Education (Dec. 2024),
02734753241305980. https://doi.org/10.1177/02734753241305980 Publisher: SAGE Publications Inc.
[13] Maurice Jakesch, Advait Bhat, Daniel Buschek, Lior Zalmanson, and Mor Naaman. 2023. Co-writing with opinionated language models aﬀects
users’ views. In Proceedings of the 2023 CHI conference on human factors in computing systems. 1–15.
[14] Artur Klingbeil, Cassandra Grützner, and Philipp Schreck. 2024. Trust and reliance on AI—An experimental study on the extent and costs of
overreliance on AI. Computers in Human Behavior 160 (2024), 108352.
[15] Hao-Ping Hank Lee, Advait Sarkar, Lev Tankelevitch, Ian Drosos, Sean Rintel, Richard Banks, and Nicholas Wilson. 2025. The Impact of Generative
AI on Critical Thinking: Self-Reported Reductions in Cognitive Eﬀort and Conﬁdence Eﬀects From a Survey of Knowledge Workers. (2025).
[16] Wenxia Liu and Yunsong Wang. 2024. The eﬀects of using AI tools on critical thinking in English literature classes among EFL learners: An
intervention study. European Journal of Education 59, 4 (2024), e12804.
[17] James Prather, Brent N Reeves, Paul Denny, Brett A Becker, Juho Leinonen, Andrew Luxton-Reilly, Garrett Powell, James Finnie-Ansley, and
Eddie Antonio Santos. 2023.
“It’s weird that it knows what i want”: Usability and interactions with copilot for novice programmers. ACM
transactions on computer-human interaction 31, 1 (2023), 1–31.
[18] Michael Scriven and Richard Paul. 1987. Critical thinking. In The 8th Annual International Conference on Critical Thinking and Education Reform,
CA, Vol. 7.
[19] Matthias Stadler, Maria Bannert, and Michael Sailer. 2024. Cognitive ease at a cost: LLMs reduce mental eﬀort but compromise depth in student
scientiﬁc inquiry. Computers in Human Behavior 160 (2024), 108386. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chb.2024.108386
[20] Paul Stapleton. 2001. Assessing critical thinking in the writing of Japanese university students: Insights about assumptions and content familiarity.
Written communication 18, 4 (2001), 506–548.
[21] Stacy E Walker. 2003. Active learning strategies to promote critical thinking. Journal of athletic training 38, 3 (2003), 263.
Manuscript submitted to ACM

6
Mei et al.
[22] Goodwin Watson and Edward M. Glaser. 1980. Watson-Glaser critical thinking appraisal: Forms A and B Manual.
[23] Thomas Weber, Maximilian Brandmaier, Albrecht Schmidt, and Sven Mayer. 2024. Signiﬁcant productivity gains through programming with large
language models. Proceedings of the ACM on Human-Computer Interaction 8, EICS (2024), 1–29.
[24] Brian White, Marilyne Stains, Marta Escriu-Sune, Eden Medaglia, Leila Rostamnjad, Clark Chinn, and Hannah Sevian. 2011. A novel instrument
for assessing students’ critical thinking abilities. Journal of College Science Teaching 40, 5 (2011).
[25] Cassandra Xia and Pattie Maes. 2013. The design of artifacts for augmenting intellect. In Proceedings of the 4th Augmented Human International
Conference. ACM, Stuttgart Germany, 154–161. https://doi.org/10.1145/2459236.2459263
accepted 24 March 2025
Manuscript submitted to ACM