International Journal on Natural Language Computing (IJNLC) Vol.13, No.1, February 2024 
DOI: 10.5121/ijnlc.2024.13103                                                                                                                     37 
 
RAG-FUSION: A NEW TAKE ON RETRIEVAL-
AUGMENTED GENERATION 
 
Zackary Rackauckas 
 
Power and Sensor Systems, Infineon Technologies, San Jose, California 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
Infineon has identified a need for engineers, account managers, and customers to rapidly obtain product 
information. This problem is traditionally addressed with retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) chatbots, 
but in this study, I evaluated the use of the newly popularized RAG-Fusion method. RAG-Fusion combines 
RAG and reciprocal rank fusion (RRF) by generating multiple queries, reranking them with reciprocal 
scores and fusing the documents and scores. Through manually evaluating answers on accuracy, 
relevance, and comprehensiveness, I found that RAG-Fusion was able to provide accurate and 
comprehensive answers due to the generated queries contextualizing the original query from various 
perspectives. However, some answers strayed off topic when the generated queries' relevance to the 
original query is insufficient. This research marks significant progress in artificial intelligence (AI) and 
natural language processing (NLP) applications and demonstrates transformations in a global and multi-
industry context. 
 
KEYWORDS 
 
Chatbot, Retrieval-augmented Generation, Reciprocal Rank Fusion, Natural Language Processing 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
 
Infineon account managers and field application engineers have expressed the need to obtain 
sales-oriented product information rapidly, but Infineon's product selection guides and datasheets 
are often hundreds of pages long. Born from this need was the rapid development of chatbots to 
provide account managers and engineers with technical information in seconds. These chatbots 
are built off the state-of-the-art retrieval-augmented generation framework. 
 
Recently, retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) has been at the core of all of Infineon's virtual 
assistants. Retrieval-augmented generation answers a user's questions related to the purpose of 
the virtual assistant. The method combines text generation from large language models (LLMs) 
and document retrieval from databases of related documents to generate accurate, relevant, and 
comprehensive responses [1]. Large language models are advanced natural language processing 
systems trained on large sets of data that process and generate text. While they are designed to 
handle tasks like machine translation, summarization, and conversational interactions, RAG 
models can also leverage them for information retrieval [2]. RAG has shown remarkable success 
in several knowledge-intensive natural language processing tasks including accurate trivia 
question answering, highly accurate fact verification, and accurately answering middle school 
math questions [3] [4]. In addition, retrieval-augmented generation reduces misinformation 
typically produced by large language models and non-RAG chatbots [5]. 
 
Document retrieval is a fundamental component of the algorithm. Traditional RAG virtual 
assistants rank documents in the order of relevance to the query, usually by vector distances. This 

International Journal on Natural Language Computing (IJNLC) Vol.13, No.1, February 2024 
38 
means that the more relevant a document is in a query, the higher priority it takes being in the 
answer. Recently, however, developers and researchers have explored implementing different 
reranking methods for documents. It has been found that reranking in retrieval-augmented 
generation plays a significant role in improving retrieval results and in increasing the accuracy, 
relevance, and comprehensiveness of answers [6]. 
 
Reciprocal rank fusion (RRF) is a reranking algorithm that gives a reciprocal rank to documents 
in multiple sources, then combines those ranks and documents into one final reranked list. It has 
been found that RRF outperforms many other document reranking methods while being sensitive 
to its parameters [7] [8]. Utilizing RRF as a reranker in a RAG algorithm yields RAG-Fusion, a 
novel RAG-based chatbot model popularized by Adrian H. Raudaschl [9]. 
 
The chatbot I developed in this paper was initially a traditional RAG bot developed to be used by 
automotive field engineers. But I found that there was a need for customers and distributors to 
use this chatbot as well from questions asked online in our developer community [10]. 
Accordingly, I changed the model of the chatbot from RAG to RAG-Fusion with the hypothesis 
that it would provide answers that not only held the same accuracy as the RAG chatbot but were 
also more comprehensive in addressing various perspectives of users' questions. Thus, I tested the 
bot for viability in the following three areas: answering product-specific questions from 
engineers, answering sales teams' queries about sales strategies, and answering customer queries 
about products. Specifically, I focused on answering questions related to our silicon MEMs 
microphones and metal-oxide-semiconductor field-effect transistors (MOSFETs) [11] [12] . 
 
2. RAG VS RAG-FUSION 
 
The traditional retrieval-augmented generation chatbot model for specific product information 
consists of the following steps: 
 
 
Gather product documents (e.g., datasheets, and product selection guides) in a database 
of documents for retrieval into text. 
 
Create vector embeddings -- numerical representations of the text that the algorithm can 
understand -- and store them in a vector database. 
 
Upon receiving a query from the user, 
 
 
Retrieve the n most relevant documents based on vector distance to the original query via 
vector search. 
 
Send the query together with the retrieved documents to a large language model to 
generate a response and output the response. 
 
RAG-Fusion, on the other hand, has a few extra steps [13]. Once the original query is received, 
the model sends the original query to the large language model to generate several new search 
queries based on the original query. For example, if the user's original query is "Tell me about 
MEMs microphones," the generated queries may include 
 
 
What are MEMs microphones and how do they work? 
 
What are the advantages of using MEMs microphones? 
 
What are some recommended MEMs microphones? 
 
The algorithm then performs vector search to find several relevant documents like with RAG. 
But, instead of sending those documents with the queries to the large language model to generate 

International Journal on Natural Language Computing (IJNLC) Vol.13, No.1, February 2024 
39 
the output, the model performs reciprocal rank fusion. Reciprocal rank fusion is an algorithm 
commonly used in search to assign scores to every document and rerank them according to the 
scores. The scores assigned to each document, or rrf scores, are 
 
rrfscore =
1
𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑘 +  𝑘 
 
where rank is the current rank of the documents sorted by distance, and k is a constant smoothing 
factor that determines the weight given to the existing ranks. 
 
Upon each calculation of the score, the rrf score is accumulated with previous scores for the same 
document, and when all scores are accumulated, documents are fused together and reranked 
according to their scores. The model then sends the reranked results along with the generated 
queries and the original queries to the large language model to produce an output. 
 
 
 
Figure 1. Diagram illustrating the high-level process of RAG-Fusion starting with the original query 
''IM72D128 IP Rating.’’ 
 
3. INFINEON CHATBOT FOR ENGINEERS 
 
There are three potential use cases of the Infineon RAG-Fusion chatbot: providing technical 
information to engineers, providing sales-oriented information to account managers, and 
providing customer-facing information to customers. 
  
To test the viability of the chatbot in providing information to engineers, I gathered a list of 
technical questions from Infineon's developer community forum regarding our products [10]. I 
then optimized the questions to produce the best output with the RAG-Fusion. This included 
correcting spelling and grammar, converting statements into questions, and dividing multi-part 
questions into a single query. I then compared the accuracy of the RAG-Fusion chatbot in 

International Journal on Natural Language Computing (IJNLC) Vol.13, No.1, February 2024 
40 
answering the technical questions against the correct forum solutions provided by Infineon 
experts. Take the following question for example. 
 
Query: IP rating of mounted IM72D128 
 
Generated queries: ['1. What is the IP rating of the mounted IM72D128?', '2. 
IP rating explained for mounted IM72D128.', '3. Waterproofing capabilities 
of the IM72D128 with its IP rating.', '4. How does the IP rating of the 
IM72D128 affect its durability when mounted?'] 
 
Bot answer: The mounted IM72D128 has an IP57 rating, indicating a high 
level of protection against both dust and water. The first digit, 5, signifies its 
resistance to solid objects like dust or dirt. The second digit, 7, represents its 
resistance to water. This rating means that the IM72D128 has a sealed 
design, preventing water or dust from entering between the membrane and 
backplate. This robust design ensures no mechanical blockages or electric 
leakage issues typically seen in MEMS microphones. As a result, the 
IM72D128 is highly durable and can withstand exposure to water and dust 
without significant damage. Its sealed MEMS design allows it to function 
properly even in challenging environmental conditions, providing long-term 
durability and reliable performance. 
 
Forum solution: Yes, you are right. IM72D128 has IP57 rating. The 
recommended Reflow soldering and board assembly of the microphone is 
given in section 7 (page: 14-15) of the datasheet. Please also refer to the 
application note: MEMS microphone mechanical & acoustical 
implementation. 
 
In this case, the chatbot provided a correct answer, that the IM72D128 microphone has an IP57 
rating. Unlike the forum solution, however, the chatbot not only provided the rating, but also 
explained what the rating signifies. In addition, it provided information about the microphone's 
sealed design, ensuring no mechanical blockage or electric leakage issues, and a final statement 
summarizing its strengths. This extra information was derived from the generated queries and 
provided an answer that was not only correct, but also more comprehensive and had more context 
surrounding the question compared to the forum solution. The only part missing from the answer 
is that the microphone delivers high ingress IP57 protection at a microphone level because of 
Infineon's latest Sealed Dual Membrane MEMS technology. This missing part may be solved, 
however, by increasing the number of queries generated or documents retrieved. 
 
In addition to technical product questions, many engineers also ask for help troubleshooting or 
product instructions. The bot, however, tends to answer these questions with very general 
instructions and by indicating the user should follow up with Infineon. The following query 
highlights this tendency. 
 
How to connect and communicate with the PDM interface of 
IM69D130 with stm32 
 
The bot lists six steps, five of which are mainly general guidance, with one step matching the 
expert solution: 
 

International Journal on Natural Language Computing (IJNLC) Vol.13, No.1, February 2024 
41 
Bot: Configure the PDM interface settings on the STM32 microcontroller 
according to the requirements of the IM69D130, including clock frequency, 
data format, and other parameters.  
 
Form: Set up the data format on the I2S interface to match the PDM data 
from the IM69D130.  
 
However, the forum answer emphasizes that the IS2 interface of the microcontroller must be in 
slave receive mode, which is nowhere to be found in the bot's answer. This is most likely because 
the product database does not contain this kind of guidance. None of the documents mention 
slave receiver mode, which is a keyword in the response. Since it is unable to retrieve this 
information, the language model makes up for this by outputting its prior knowledge to 
supplement the missing information from the documents, which are general troubleshooting steps 
and not product-specific steps. This tendency can be solved by providing correct documentation 
in the database regarding troubleshooting and methods to use the product. 
 
4. INFINEON CHATBOT FOR ACCOUNT MANAGERS 
 
Although its original purpose was to be used for engineers, the bot ended up performing the best 
in response to sales-oriented questions. These are questions that are asked by account managers 
or inside sales representatives that give insight into the benefits of Infineon products and sales 
strategies. 
 
To devise sales strategies, the bot retrieves the documents related to the specific products, in the 
following case our 100V Linear Field-effect Transistor (FET). It then synthesizes the product 
knowledge with logic from the large language model to create a valuable strategy based on 
accurate product information. Generating multiple queries is key to devising a comprehensive 
and multiperspective sales strategy. For example, in response to the prompt 
 
How do I sell a 100V OptiMOS Linear FET for power over ethernet to my 
customer? 
 
the bot generates unique prompts addressing market trends and customer preferences, best 
practices for selling electrical components, the value proposition of our Linear FET, and 
strategies for effectively pitching the benefits and features of our Linear FET. The answer 
generated by the chatbot addresses these queries by providing technical specifications such as the 
latest IEEE 802.3bt standard increasing the available power via Power over Ethernet (PoE). It 
continues to highlight Infineon's expertise in switched-mode power supply designs and our FETs' 
high efficiency, protection, best-in-class performance with ultra-low RDS(on) and low charge, 
and high reliability. It responds that the value proposition includes improving efficiency and 
power density, low conduction losses, and high switching performance leading to energy savings 
and better thermal management. For sales strategies, it suggests highlighting its value 
proposition, advantages in performance and efficiency, and the importance to understand 
customer-specific needs and requirements for their applications. It ends with suggesting the 
account manager provide technical support and assistance, which ties back into our Infineon 
chatbot use case for engineers. 
 
This sales-oriented question answering for account managers reduces the need for an account 
manager to ask an engineer for product information as well as the engineer's need to sift through 
a 100-page datasheet. This saves times for everyone in the process and increases the account 
manager's ability to sell the product, resulting in more sales and higher revenue. 

International Journal on Natural Language Computing (IJNLC) Vol.13, No.1, February 2024 
42 
Inside sales representatives often need to quickly find product-specific information. This is 
similar to the use case for engineers, but instead of technical information like voltage and current 
density, it is information about applications and product validation. 
 
Query: What is the application of IM73A135V01? 
 
Bot answer: Based on the provided documents, the IM73A135V01 is a dust 
and water resistant analog XENSIVTM MEMS microphone with a best-in-
class Signal to Noise Ratio (SNR) of 73dB(A) for high-quality audio pick-up. 
It also has a flat frequency response and low distortion. In addition, it is IP57 
robust to dust and water. While the documents do not specifically mention 
application examples or industry applications for the IM73A135V01, it is a 
robust and high-performance MEMS microphone that can be used in various 
audio devices such as TWS earbuds and compact audio devices. Based on its 
features and benefits, it can be used in applications that require high-quality 
audio pick-up, low distortion, and dust/water resistance. Some potential 
applications could include consumer electronics, automotive, industrial, and 
smart devices.  
 
5. INFINEON CHATBOT FOR CUSTOMERS 
 
While the chatbot provides great support for sales teams, it is also able to provide comprehensive 
and helpful feedback for customers' product-related questions. These are not engineering 
questions, but rather questions from customers who are considering buying our products. For 
example, a customer could be looking to manufacture a camera and wants to know whether our 
microphones are a good fit for their camera. In fact, this was a real question asked on our 
developer community [10]. 
 
Query: Is the IM72D128 microphone good to use in an outdoor surveillance 
camera? 
 
Bot answer: The IM72D128V01 microphone is an ideal choice for outdoor 
surveillance cameras based on several documents. Document 1 states that it 
is IP57 dust and water resistant, making it able to withstand the conditions 
typically encountered in outdoor settings. Document 7 further describes it as 
an ultra-high-performance digital microphone with a high signal-to-noise 
ratio (SNR) and low distortions, which ensures clear and high-quality audio 
capture. This makes it well-suited for outdoor surveillance cameras that 
require excellent audio capture capabilities. Additionally, Document 8 
mentions that the IM72D128V01 microphone is designed for both indoor and 
outdoor automotive applications, offers best-in-class audio performance, and 
has an extended temperature range. These features can be advantageous for 
outdoor surveillance cameras as well, emphasizing its suitability for 
capturing audio in outdoor environments. 
 
With this answer, the customer understands that our IM72D128 microphone does align with their 
project, resulting in a higher chance of a new sale. 
 
 
 
 

International Journal on Natural Language Computing (IJNLC) Vol.13, No.1, February 2024 
43 
6. BENEFITS OF A CHATBOT 
 
Customers and engineers tend to ask several questions in one query, and Infineon experts tend to 
respond to the main question and not the several smaller ones asked. With a chatbot, albeit in 
separate queries, users can ask all their questions and get answers. 
In addition to product-specific knowledge, a chatbot can leverage pretrained knowledge from its 
large language model that an Infineon expert may not have. For example, one question asked by a 
customer was regarding whether MEMs microphones could be used in wooden instruments or 
professional recording studios. While our expert responded by pointing to the MEMs microphone 
product page and datasheets, the RAG-Fusion bot was able to provide a useful and 
comprehensive answer drawing on its prior trained knowledge and database of MEMs 
microphones. 
 
MEMS (Micro-Electro-Mechanical Systems) microphones are small devices 
that convert sound waves into electrical signals. They utilize a diaphragm 
that vibrates in response to sound waves and an acoustic sensor that detects 
these vibrations. The sensor then translates the vibrations into electrical 
signals, which can be amplified and processed for various applications. 
 
The advantages of using MEMS microphones in stage or professional studio 
recordings are significant. Their small size allows for easy integration into 
equipment and placement in different areas. They offer high-performance 
audio capture with low self-noise, wide dynamic range, and high sensitivity. 
MEMS microphones also provide excellent audio quality, enabling accurate 
and precise sound reproduction. Additionally, their compact design enables 
the creation of microphone arrays for noise cancellation and beamforming, 
enhancing audio capture in complex acoustic environments. 
 
However, when using MEMS microphones in wooden instruments on stage or 
in professional studio recordings, there may be limitations or challenges. One 
potential limitation is their sensitivity to handling noise, as MEMS 
microphones can be more sensitive to vibrations and movements compared to 
traditional microphones. This requires careful handling and mounting to 
minimize unwanted noise. Additionally, the frequency response of MEMS 
microphones may not perfectly match the tonal characteristics of wooden 
instruments, necessitating careful selection and placement to achieve the 
desired sound. 
To capture the sound of wooden instruments effectively, some recommended 
MEMS microphones include models like the Infineon-IM73D122 or the 
Infineon-IM72D128. These microphones offer high sensitivity, low self-noise, 
and a wide dynamic range, making them suitable for capturing the nuances 
and details of wooden instruments. However, it is important to experiment 
and select the microphone that best suits the specific instrument and desired 
sound. 
In summary, MEMS microphones can be used in wooden instruments on stage 
or in professional studio recordings, offering advantages such as small size, 
high audio quality, and the ability to capture details and nuances. However, 
careful consideration should be given to microphone selection, placement, 
and handling to overcome any potential limitations or challenges. 
 
 

International Journal on Natural Language Computing (IJNLC) Vol.13, No.1, February 2024 
44 
7. CHALLENGES OF RAG-FUSION 
 
The largest challenge of RAG-Fusion is the slow answer time from receiving the query to 
outputting the answer. I compared the runtime to our traditional RAG chatbot by performing ten 
back-to-back runs with the same query. I then subtracted the time when the query was received 
from the time the output was given to determine the time it took for that run. Back-to-back runs 
should control for application programming interfaces (APIs) having different response times at 
different times of the day. 
 
Table 1. Comparison of RAG-Fusion Time and RAG Time in Smart Speaker Runs. RAG-Fusion takes 1.77 
times longer to output an answer. 
 
Run 
RAG-Fusion Time (s) 
RAG Time (s) 
1 
42.72 
30.48 
2 
32.05 
32.93 
3 
12.85 
25.94 
4 
42.78 
16.70 
5 
36.58 
11.89 
6 
45.99 
10.62 
7 
34.92 
17.58 
8 
35.56 
14.42 
9 
37.55 
28.21 
10 
25.19 
5.44 
Average 
34.62 
19.52 
 
Although it is hard to generalize exact runtime numbers, this average over ten back-to-back runs 
shows that RAG-Fusion bot is almost certainly slower than the RAG bot. In this case, RAG's 
average runtime from query to output was 19.52 seconds, with RAG-Fusion being nearly 1.77 
times as slow with an average query to output time of 34.62 seconds. Moreover, this trend is 
evident in all individual runs but runs two and three. 
 
After performing several runs with different queries and at different times, I determined that the 
slowness of RAG-Fusion compared to RAG can be mostly attributed to the second API call to the 
large language model. Even in long queries of 70 or more words, the call to generate multiple 
queries never took more than 5 seconds. The model then ran through document retrieval and 
reciprocal rank fusion almost instantly until it stopped for the second API call for several 
seconds. The second API call's complexity is amplified by the volume and diversity of the input 
in the form of multiple queries and a substantial number of documents in contrast to the much 
simpler call in RAG with one query and fewer documents. Two ways to overcome this slowness 
included hosting an LLM locally to reduce latency in the calls to the LLM and decreasing the 
number of queries generated by the first API call. 
 
Another challenge of RAG-Fusion is the inability to empirically evaluate answers. While 
evaluation frameworks like ROUGE, BLEU, BLEURT, and METEOR are often applied to assess 
the accuracy of retrieval-augmented generation models, in the case of the Infineon chatbot, there 
is not necessarily a direct, expected answer. Thus, such evaluation frameworks are less effective 
for tasks such as the sales and customer-oriented answering where outputs can vary significantly 
in structure and content while still being correct.  
 
New evaluation toolkits such as RAGElo and Ragas have recently emerged. Such frameworks 
seek to provide automated evaluation for RAG-based models. RAGElo takes in a list of 
questions, documents, and answers. It then assigns a tournament-style Elo ranking of multiple 

International Journal on Natural Language Computing (IJNLC) Vol.13, No.1, February 2024 
45 
RAG pipelines over different queries and prompts [14]. Ragas provides empirical assessment 
scores in context precision, faithfulness, and answer relevancy [15]. Despite promising results on 
evaluating RAG-based agents, further tweaking to these evaluation methods is needed to align 
with the unique goals of the Infineon RAG-Fusion chatbot. 
 
The evaluation method that reflects RAG-Fusion’s goals are human evaluations based on 
accuracy, relevance, and comprehensiveness. Ratings from Infineon account managers and 
engineers provide the best insight into answer quality from an expert lens. For the purposes of 
this paper, however, I manually evaluated the responses based on the same scale. I found that 
RAG-Fusion excels in accuracy and comprehensiveness, but occasionally strays in relevance. 
This occurs when irrelevant queries are generated by the large language model. While the 
answers to the generated queries were accurate and comprehensive, they strayed from the 
intention of the original question if the generated query it answered differed too much from the 
intent of the original query. 
 
To achieve answers that completely match the intention of the original query, users must 
sometimes engineer prompts to be more specific and comprehensible so that the large language 
model generates appropriate queries. An example question from a distributor was regarding 
whether our IM72D128 microphone is good for them to use in a security camera: "If it was  
Okay, it is very good for out-door surveillance camera," with "If it was Okay" referring to 
whether water and dust come through the sound port. The first prompt I tried for this question 
was "Is IM72D128 very good for an out-door surveillance camera?" However, the language 
model did not recognize my intention of the phrase "good for" and thus generated prompts 
labelling IM72D128 as a surveillance camera itself. I was able to generate relevant queries with 
IM72D128 understood to be a microphone used in a surveillance camera with the prompt "Is the 
IM72D128 microphone good to use in an outdoor surveillance camera?" Situations like this can 
be remedied by providing a prompt creation guide to users, but in the long run I would like to 
investigate ways to integrate prompt engineering into the bot side rather than forcing the burden 
on users. 
 
Another challenge of RAG-Fusion, which is also a challenge of RAG, is its inability to provide 
definitively negative answers. Below is an example of when the bot could not find documents 
relating to the user's query.  
 
Query: We need to Confirm whether the IFX waterproof MIC has a Sleeping 
mode and wake-up functions. 
 
Bot answer: Based on the provided documents, it is uncertain whether the 
IFX waterproof MIC has sleeping mode and wake-up functions, as none of 
the documents explicitly mention these features. To obtain accurate 
information, it is recommended to refer to the official documentation or reach 
out to the manufacturer directly for confirmation. 
Forum answer: Our microphone does not come with sleep mode and wake up 
functionality.With respect power optimization, our microphone comes with 
low power mode. 
 
While the bot was correct that there is no mention of sleeping mode and wake-up functions in the 
database of product information, it did not provide a firmly negative answer. This is because the 
nature of the bot is centred around document retrieval and not providing clear negative answers. 
 
 
 

International Journal on Natural Language Computing (IJNLC) Vol.13, No.1, February 2024 
46 
8. CONCLUSION 
 
I found that the Infineon RAG-Fusion chatbot was able to provide more accurate and 
comprehensive answers than traditional RAG models. This includes answers for questions related 
to technical product information for engineers, sales strategies for account managers, and 
customer-oriented product explanations. This is due to the generation of multiple queries based 
on the original query, which allows the chatbot to answer questions from multiple angles. In 
addition, using RRF to rerank the documents retrieved results in the most relevant documents 
getting the highest priority in answer generation.  
 
While RAG-Fusion increases answer quality, it comes with challenges such as a longer runtime 
than other models due to a more complex call to the LLM with multiple queries and more 
documents, answers going off track from the original query due to irrelevant queries generated by 
the first LLM call, and the occasional need for appropriate prompt engineering to generate the 
desired outcome. 
 
Many questions asked on the developer forum were from customers and distributors in non-
English speaking countries. When customers translate their original questions to English, some 
context may be lost and thus, customers may not receive the answers they want from Infineon 
experts. This was clear with the previously discussed question regarding the usage of MEMs 
microphones in security cameras. In the future, I will expand the Infineon RAG-Fusion chatbot to 
answer in languages other than English, especially Japanese and Mandarin Chinese.  
 
I will also research ways to better represent multimodal pdf datasheets as text for retrieval-
augmented generation. This will allow RAG-Fusion chatbots to retrieve answers from more 
granular text, resulting in a higher accuracy of specific product information and reduced 
hallucination frequency. I will also evaluate and tweak systematic frameworks like RAGElo and 
Ragas according to RAG-Fusion’s accuracy and performance. Other future research includes 
optimizing methods to improve real-time performance optimization, automated quality assurance, 
and integration into internal and external web platforms. 
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
 
The author would like to thank Brooks Felton, Cynthia Meah, and Christopher Arnold. 
 
REFERENCES 
 
[1] 
w. yu, ''retrieval-augmented generation across heterogeneous knowledge,'' (2022)proceedings of the 
2022 conference of the north american chapter of the association for computational linguistics: 
human language technologies: student research workshop, pp. 52-58, doi: 10.18653/v1/2022.naacl-
srw.7 
[2] 
h. naveed, u. a. khan, s. qiu, m. saqib, s. anwar, m. usman, et al., (2023) ''a comprehensive overview 
of large language models,'' doi: 10.48550/arxiv.2307.06435. 
[3] 
z. levonian, c. li, w. zhu, a. gade, o. henkel, m. postle, et al., (2023) ''retrieval-augmented generation 
to improve math question-answering: trade-offs between groundedness and human preference,'' 
neurips'23 workshop on generative ai for education, doi: 10.48550/arxiv.2310.03184. 
[4] 
p. lewis, e. perez, a. piktus, f. petroni, v. karpukhin, n. goyal, et al., (2020) ''retrieval-augmented 
generation for knowledge-intensive nlp tasks,'' neurips,doi: 10.48550/arxiv.2005.11401. 
[5] 
k. shuster, s. poff, m. chen, d. kiela, j. weston, (2021) ''retrieval augmentation reduces hallucination 
in conversation,''doi: 10.48550/arxiv.2104.07567 
[6] 
m. glass, g. rossiello, m. f. m. chowdhury, a. r. naik, p. cai, and a. gliozzo, (2022) ''re2g: retrieve, 
rerank, generate,'' naacl, doi: 10.48550/arxiv.2207.06300 

International Journal on Natural Language Computing (IJNLC) Vol.13, No.1, February 2024 
47 
[7] 
g. v. cormack, c. l. a. clarke, and s. buettcher, (2009) ''reciprocal rank fusion outperforms condorcet 
and individual rank learning methods,'' sigir '09: proceedings of the 32nd international acm sigir 
conference on research and development in information retrieval, pp. 758-759, doi: 
10.1145/1571941.1572114. 
[8] 
s. bruch, s. gai, and a. ingber, (2023) ''an analysis of fusion functions for hybrid retrieval,'' acm 
transactions on information systems, vol. 42, no. 20, pp. 1-35, doi: 10.1145/3596512. 
[9] 
a. h. raudaschl, (2023) ''forget rag, the future is rag-fusion,''towards data science. 
[10] 
''infineon developer community,'' [online]. available: https://community.infineon.com/. 
[11] 
''xensiv™ – sensing the worldsensor solutions for automotive, industrial, consumer and iot 
applications,'' 
[online].available: 
https://www.infineon.com/cms/en/product/sensor/mems-
microphones/. 
[12] 
''power 
mosfet 
- 
infineon 
technologies,'' 
[online]. 
available: 
https://www.infineon.com/cms/en/product/power/mosfet/. 
[13] 
a. h. raudaschl, github - rag-fusion: the next frontier of search technology. [online]. available: 
https://github.com/raudaschl/rag-fusion. 
[14] 
camara, 
and 
f. 
r. 
barrera, 
github 
– 
ragelo. 
[online] 
available: 
https://github.com/zetaalphavector/ragelo. 
[15] 
s. es, j. james, l. espinosa-anke, and s. shockaert, (2023) “ragas: automated evaluation of retrieval 
augmented generation,” doi: 10.48550/arxiv.2309.15217 
 
AUTHOR 
 
Zackary Rackauckas is an AI and businessdevelopment research intern at Infineon 
Technologies, San Jose, United States. His current interests include multilingual NLP, 
generative AI, and digitization and decarbonization methods. He is a professional 
member of IEEE Intelligent Systems. Zack received his BA in mathematics 
fromSwarthmore College. Contact him at zackary.rackauckas@infineon.com.