A MULTI-RELATIONAL NETWORK TO 
SUPPORT THE SCHOLARLY 
COMMUNICATION PROCESS1 
MARKO A. RODRIGUEZ 
Digital Library Research & Prototyping Team 
Los Alamos National Laboratory 
Los Alamos, New Mexico 87545 
marko@lanl.gov 
 
Abstract 
The general purpose of the scholarly communication process is to support the creation and 
dissemination of ideas within the scientific community. At a finer granularity, there exists 
multiple stages which, when confronted by a member of the community, have different 
requirements and therefore different solutions. In order to take a researcher’s idea from an 
initial inspiration to a community resource, the scholarly communication infrastructure may 
be required to 1) provide a scientist initial seed ideas; 2) form a team of well suited 
collaborators; 3) locate the best venue to publish the formalized idea; 4) determine the most 
appropriate peers to review the manuscript; and 5) disseminate the end product to the most 
interested members of the community. Through the various delineations of this process, the 
requirements of each stage are tied solely to the multi-functional resources of the community: 
its researchers, its journals, and its manuscripts.  It is within the collection of these resources 
and their inherent relationships that the solutions to the stages of scholarly communication 
are to be found. This paper describes a multi-relational network composed of multiple 
scholarly artifacts that can be used as a medium for supporting the scholarly communication 
process. 
Keywords: Digital Libraries, Information Discovery, and Information Management 
1. Introduction 
 
The scholarly communication process transforms the vague ideas of a researcher into a 
formalized paper ready for use by the scientific community. This transformation process 
is composed of multiple individual stages that each has their unique requirements and 
therefore their unique solutions. The particular stages of this process may include, but are 
definitely not limited to, 1) finding papers related to one’s idea, 2) finding collaborators 
to work on the idea with, 3) finding a public venue to publish the formalized idea, 4) 
                                                
1 Rodriguez, M.A., “A Multi-Relational Network to Support the Scholarly Communication Process”, 
International Journal of Public Information Systems, volume 2007, issue 1, ISSN: 1653-4360, 2007. 

finding referees to review the submitted paper, and 5) finally finding the most interested 
members of the community to read the published paper. It is obvious that the solutions to 
these problems remain tied solely to scholars, papers, and journals. Therefore, for each of 
these stages, problem solving is a matter of searching the pool of scholarly resources for 
the most appropriate solution set given the particular problem context. 
 
No scholarly resource is an island unto itself and the scholarly record makes the 
relationship between resources explicit. Ontologically, an author writes a paper, a paper 
cites another paper, a paper is published in a journal, and a journal is associated with a 
particular scholarly domain. Given any of the stages of the scholarly communication 
process, individuals pursue the chain of associations that bring them from one scholarly 
resource to another until they arrive at a resource, or set of resources, which solves their 
particular problem at hand. For instance, when a researcher wants to find papers related 
to an inspiring paper they have read, they may spend their time looking at the references 
of the paper, perusing the journal associated with the paper, and scanning the paper’s 
author’s websites for other publications by the author. Likewise, journal editors may 
utilize a paper’s references and past publishing authors of the journal as potential referees 
for peer-review. 
 
Currently, many computational systems exist that support the locating of scholarly 
papers. Google Scholar2 is a relatively recent development for locating scholarly papers 
that works in a manner similar to the Google web search engine. Google Scholar allows 
users to search by keyword matching and/or moving through the paper citation network. 
The keyword and citation network mechanism is a popular interface and is the primary 
search mechanism for many other repositories such as Citebase3 (an extension to 
ArXiv4), Citeseer5, and the many publisher web interfaces. Another mechanism that has 
become popular in recent years is the collaborative tagging method [Golder & Huberman, 
2006]. CiteULike6 allows registered users to add ‘tags’ (keyword metadata) to papers in 
order to provide a keyword/user search environment. People can search for papers by tags 
or by looking at the papers their favorite ‘taggers’ have tagged. ArXiv also supports  
push-based recommendation of scholarly papers. ArXiv users can register their email and 
their favorite scholarly domains and every U.S. east coast morning, an email is sent to 
them containing the recently submitted and update papers associated with their favorite 
domains. Finally, usage-networks have been employed as a means of finding related 
resources in a scholarly repository [Bollen & Van de Sompel, 2006] in a manner similar 
to the collaborative filtering algorithms of recommender systems [Herlocker & et.al., 
2004]. 
 
Scholars use these systems to locate resources. However, the scholarly communication 
process is not simply about finding papers, but also about finding collaborators, 
publication venues, peer-reviewers, and an audience for one’s ideas. As will be presented 
                                                
2 Google Scholar available at http://scholar.google.com 
3 Citebase available at http://www.citebase.org 
4 ArXiv available at http://www.arxiv.org 
5 Citeseer available at http://citeseer.ist.psu.edu/ 
6 CiteULike available at http://www.citeulike.org/ 

in this paper, both the problems and the solutions of scholarly communication can be 
represented as a collection of resources within a digital-library repository, where problem 
solving is the act of mapping one collection of resources to another. Figure 1 depicts the 
stages of the scholarly communication process and the mapping of problems to solutions 
in this process. 
 
J
P
A
J
P
A
J
P
A Scholarly Multi-Graph Implementation
Finding 
Related Work
Finding 
Collaborators
Finding 
Journals
Finding 
Referees
Finding 
Audience
Problem representation
Scholarly Communication Process
Problem
Solution
Solution
P
  
 
Figure 1. Problems in the scholarly communication process and how they are represented 
and solved by the same network substrate (A: author, P: paper, J: journal) 
 
The five problem solving processes solved by the proposed system are: 
 
1. locating references for an initial idea: the system determines a collection of 
manuscripts related to an individual’s rough and unformulated idea. 
 
2. finding potential collaborators for an idea: given a model of the specific domain of the 
individual’s initial idea, system will suggest fit collaborators.  
 
3. determining a journal for paper submission: once the collaborating team has 
formalized the idea into a written manuscript,  a journal suitable for  the paper will be 
recommended by the system.  
 
4. locating peer-reviewers to review a paper: journal editors can use the system to find 
qualified referees to review the submitted manuscript. 
 
5. distribute the accepted paper to appropriate members in the community: the system 
creates a plausible mapping between the newly published paper and potentially interested 
scientists in the field. 
 

Unlike modern scholarly paper search engines, the proposed system does not simply 
provide a substrate for perusing the citation network of papers or matching keywords. 
Instead, the proposed system simulates the process of scholars searching the scholarly 
network in the more ‘manual’ association-based search. This simulated search identifies 
resources related to the scholar’s problem. The behavior of a scholar utilizing the web of 
associations between various scholarly artifacts can be simulated in a manner similar to 
the random walk algorithm of Markov chain analysis [Häggström, 2002], the continuous-
form spreading activation algorithms of information retrieval [Crestani, 1997b], and by a 
non-converging process similar to the random surfer model of the PageRank algorithm 
developed by Google [Brin & Lawrence, 1998].  In short, a random walker moves from 
node to node in the scholarly network identifying the most related artifacts to one’s 
problem as being those that are most visited by the random walker. While not discussed 
in this article, a more advanced constrained random walker model can be used called the 
grammar-based random walker model of network analysis [Rodriguez, 2007]. In 
grammar-based simulated search model, the random walker can only traverse particular 
edges such that the random walker’s path is limited to a subset of the full scholarly 
network.  
 
The primary purpose of this paper is to describe a single unified system that simulates the 
search processes of scholars during the five stages of the scholarly communication 
process—a multi-artifact recommender system.  Many scholarly repositories contain 
well-maintained metadata for their resources. Unlike the World Wide Web, where data is 
poorly structured and metadata is difficult to obtain, the metadata in a scholarly 
repository is much richer. This metadata can be used in novel ways to facilitate searching 
for resources whether those resources are authors, papers, or journals and conference 
proceedings and can be used beyond keyword searches. While keywords searches have 
shown their usefulness, other technologies such as the technology proposed by this paper 
can be used to augment the search capabilities of modern scholarly repositories. The 
proposed system is not intended to replace existing search technologies, but instead to 
provide a complementary data structure and algorithm that takes novel advantage of the 
data stored in scholarly repositories. 
2. A Multi-Relational Scholarly Network 
 
A multi-relational network is a network composed of a set of heterogeneous artifacts 
(nodes) connected to one another by a set of heterogeneous relationships (edges). Two 
nodes can be connected to one another by more than one edge. Thus, in order to make a 
distinction between two edges between the same two nodes, a label is used.  A label 
qualifies the meaning of an edge and denotes the type of relationship between the two 
nodes. For instance, an author can be related to another because they are both part of the 
same institution and/or because they have co-authored a paper together. Furthermore, a 
multi-relational network can be weighted such that the association between two nodes is 
‘stronger’ if their weight is higher. For the remainder of this paper, a multi-relational is 
defined by the tuple G = (N, E, W), where N is the set of nodes in the network, E is a set 
of directed edges, W is the set of weights associated with each edge of the 
network, E " N # N, and W = E .  Any edge,
,i j
eµ , and associated weight,
,i j
wµ , represent a 

directed relationship from node 
in  to node 
j
n  created by means of metadata of type µ . 
Therefore, unlike the World Wide Web, where an edge is simply a directed weightless 
relationship that states that node A references node B, a multi-relational network can 
represent a heterogeneous population of nodes and a semantically rich set of edges. 
 
2.1. 
Repository Metadata Records Stored at LANL 
Many institutions utilize digital-libraries to electronically publish various digital-objects 
associated with scholarly communication. Digital-library technology not only stores 
digital-objects, but also maintains a record of each resource’s associated metadata.  Of 
particular interest to this paper’s presented system are the digital-objects representing 
electronic manuscripts—pre-prints and published papers.  Manuscript metadata such as 
authoring scientists, citation references, and publishing journals make it possible to 
algorithmically generate a portion of the scientific community’s multi-relational network 
model.  This section will describe how LANL’s digital-library metadata is used to 
construct a multi-relational network of authors, papers, and journals/conferences. Given 
the current standards in metadata representation and harvesting, a similar paradigm can 
be used to harvest data from public repositories such as ArXiv and CiteSeer. 
 
The most widely accepted digital-library metadata harvesting protocol is the OAI-PMH7. 
OAI-PMH has been used by institutional repositories worldwide as a gateway for 
accessing the metadata associated with repository resources.  When accessing a particular 
resource’s metadata record by way of OAI-PMH, an XML representation of the metadata 
is returned within the high-level <metadata> tag.  The <metadata> tag contains all the 
metadata associated with a particular repository resource.  A repository record can 
encode its metadata in one or more metadata formats such as Dublin Core8 or MARC9. 
Example 1 is a particular metadata record for a manuscript stored at the LANL Research 
Library. The record’s metadata is displayed according to the DIDL (<didl:>) namespace 
[Bekaert et al., 2003]. For the sake of brevity, multiple tags that do not pertain to the 
goals of this paper have been left out. Also, the references section has been shortened.  
Important tags that will be noted in the following subsections are highlighted with bold 
font and have the Δ notation near the right hand margin. The Δ# notation refers to 
metadata necessary to generate intra-layer connections and ∆#-# refers to metadata 
necessary to create inter-layer connections of the multi-relational network. 
 
<record> 
<header> 
<identifier>info:lanl-repo/i/0e08eefc-d053-11d8-85e1-
d1cbfd475562</identifier>  
<datestamp>2004-07-07T20:20:14Z</datestamp>  
<setSpec>format:info*3Alanl-repo*2Fpro*2Fisi</setSpec>   
</header> 
<metadata> 
<didl:Resource mimeType="application/isi+xml"> 
                                                
7 OAI-PMH available at http://www.openarchives.org/OAI/openarchivesprotocol.html 
8 Dublin Core Metadata Initiative available at http://dublincore.org 
9 MARC available at http://www.loc.gov/marc 

<citation> 
<title>The meaning of self-organization in computing</title>  
<author> 
<au>Heylighen, F</au>   
 
 
 
 
Δ1, Δ1-2 
<au>Gershenson, C</au>  
 
 
 
 
Δ1, Δ1-2 
</author> 
<journal> 
<issn>1094-7167</issn>  
 
 
 
 
Δ3a, Δ3-2 
<jtitle>IEEE INTELLIGENT SYSTEMS</jtitle>  
 
Δ3a, Δ3-2 
<stitle>IEEE INTELL SYST</stitle>   
 
 
Δ3a, Δ3-2 
</journal> 
<enumeration> 
<year>2003</year>  
<volume>18</volume>  
<issue>4</issue>  
<spage>72</spage>  
<epage>75</epage>  
</enumeration> 
</citation> 
<reference> 
<source> 
<stitle>P 13 EUR M CYB SYST</stitle>  
 
 
Δ3b, Δ2 
<author>BOLLEN, J</author>   
 
 
 
Δ2 
<spage>911</spage>  
 
 
 
 
 
Δ2 
<year>1996</year>  
 
 
 
 
 
Δ2 
</source> 
</reference> 
<reference> 
<source> 
<stitle>SWARM INTELLIGENCE</stitle>  
 
 
Δ3b, Δ2 
<author>BONABEAU, E</author>  
 
 
 
Δ2 
<year>1998</year>  
 
 
 
 
 
Δ2 
</source> 
</reference> 
</didl:DIDL> 
</metadata> 
</record> 
 
Example 1: a resource’s metadata record 
2.2. 
The Three Layers of the LANL Multi-Relational Network and their 
Intra-Layer Projections 
 
The proposed system is composed of three layers—an author-layer, a paper-layer, and a 
journal/proceedings-layer.  Each layer is represented using a co-authorship network, a 
citation network or co-citation network, and a journal reference network, respectively.  
The goal of each network layer is to relate their respective nodes according to some 
homophilic property—some quality of similarity.  For a multi-relational scholarly 
network, similarity comes by way of related research domains. The network construction 
algorithms described in this section associates the various resources of the repository 
either through occurrence or co-occurrence metadata. 
 

Co-authorship networks define the past collaborations of authors in the community.  
When two authors publish a paper together, an edge between them in the co-authorship 
network can be created. The similarity between two co-authors rests on the intuitive 
notion that two researchers are similar in research ideas if they have collaborated on a 
paper together.  The strength of this relationship can be determined in many ways.  For 
one, the more two authors publish together, the greater their connection strength.  If there 
are multiple co-authors on a particular paper, then the strength between any two co-
authors is inversely proportional to the total amount of co-authors of the paper [Liu et al., 
2005; Newman, 2001].  Thus, the weight between author ni and n j for all papers in the 
repository is defined as 
 
 
   
 
 
w j,i
aut = wi, j
aut =
1
| A(p) |"1
p#Pi, j
$
| Pi, j |
, 
 
 
where A(p) is the number of authors for paper p, Pi, j is the set of all papers in the 
repository authored by both author ni and n j, and
,
aut
i j
w
refers to the authorship metadata 
edge weight between authors ni and n j. Minus one is used to set the upper limit of this 
association such that a paper with two authors has a weight a one and the sum is divided 
by the size of the set of all co-authored papers to ensure a value between 0 and 1. The 
connections within the co-authorship network have the semantic meaning: ‘author X has 
co-authored with author Y’.  Resource metadata similar to Example 1 contains the 
necessary information to build a co-authorship network—Δ1.  In terms of Example 1, 
there are two authors, and assuming that no other papers have been co-authored by these 
authors, each direction’s edge weight is 1.0. 
 
The next layer above the co-authorship layer is the paper-layer and is composed of all 
paper, or manuscript, nodes.  The paper-layer can be created using a citation network or a 
co-citation network.  A citation network states that two papers are related if either one of 
the two papers references the other.  Directed edges in a citation network represent a 
reference from one paper to another.  The edge weight for a particular citation link is 
inversely proportional to the amount of references contained in the referencing paper. 
This is formally represented as 
 
,
1
( )
cite
i j
w
C i
=
, 
 
 
where C(i) is the number of citations for paper ni. In a citation network, a directed edge 
states that the first paper cites the second paper—Δ2.  The two outgoing edges of the 
manuscript in Example 1 each have a weight of 0.5.  
 
Co-citation is another method for constructing networks of related manuscripts.  If two 
papers cite a third paper, then there exists some level of domain similarity between the 
two papers.  The strength of tie between any two papers is calculated as, 
 

 
{
}
,
,
( , )
,where ( , )
( )
( )
( )
( )
( , )
cocite
cocite
i j
j i
S i j
w
w
S i j
x x
C i
x
C j
C i
C j
S i j
=
=
=
!
"
!
+
#
 
 
 
and C(i) is the set of citations associated with paper ni, S(i,j) is the set of citations that are 
shared in common between papers ni and n j, and the weight between any two papers is 
always between 0 and 1. 
 
Finally, atop the paper layer is the journal and conference proceedings layer, but for 
brevity’s sake, this layer will simply be called the journal-layer.  The journal-layer is 
represented by a journal reference network. The journal reference network is constructed 
in a similar fashion to a paper citation network where a journal is similar to another 
journal if papers contained within it reference papers in the other. Formally, 
 
,
( , )
( )
ref
i j
R i j
w
R i
=
 
where 
( , )
R i j  refers to the set of references that project from journal ni to journal n j and 
( )
R i  refers to the set of all references of journal ni. Again, the weight is between 0 and 1. 
The metadata record presented in Example 1 states that the paper, and its associated 
journal Δ3a, makes references to another journal Δ3b. 
 
Table 1 outlines the edge semantics for each of the three networks described. 
 
Layer 
Network Type 
Intra-Edge Semantics 
Δ1-author 
co-authorship 
‘author X has co-authored with author Y’ 
Δ2-paper 
citation 
‘paper X cites paper Y’ 
Δ3-journal 
reference 
‘journal X references journal Y’ 
Table 1: the semantics of the intra-edge projections of each multi-relational network layer 
 
2.3. 
The Three Layers of the LANL Multi-Relational Network and their 
Inter-Layer Projections 
 
The previous subsection described the three layers of the scientific community’s 
scholarly network and the meaning of their intra-layer connections.  Each of these 
independent network layers can be interconnected with inter-layer projections to yield the 
full LANL multi-relational scholarly network. The author-layer projects to the paper-
layer with edges that represent that an author has written a paper—Δ1-2.  The paper-
layer projects down to the author-layer to represent that a paper has been written by an 
author—Δ1-2.  The paper-layer also projects up to the journal-layer representing that a 
paper has been published in a journal—Δ3-2.  Finally, the journal-layer projects down to 
the paper-layer stating that a journal has published a paper—Δ3-2.  Like each network 
layer, this information can also be derived given the resource’s metadata record.  The 
edge weights of these projects can be determined in an analogous fashion to the intra-
layer projections. 

Journal
coauthor
wrote
written by
wrote
written by
published in
contains
wrote
written by
Journal
published in
contains
references
Author
Paper
Author
Author
Author
Paper
Paper
cites
cites
coauthor
coauthor
coauthor
coauthor
coauthor
 
Figure 2: digital-library metadata can create the intra and inter-layer connections of 
LANL’s multi-relational scholarly network 
 
In Figure 2, upward projections are on the left hand side of the object and downward 
projections are on the right hand side.  The imbalance of projections occurs in order to 
preserve the clarity of the diagram. Table 2 provides the semantics of the inter-network 
connections. 
 
 
Layer 
Projections Down 
Projections Up 
Δ1-author 
n/a 
‘author X wrote paper Y’ 
Δ2-paper 
‘paper X was written by author Y’ 
‘paper X is published in journal Y’ 
Δ3-journal 
‘journal X contains paper Y’ 
n/a 
Table 2: the semantic meanings of the inter-layer connections within the multi-relational 
network 
 
This section has described how a multi-relational network implementation of all the 
resources contained within the LANL repository can be constructed.  Note that every 
repository represents its information in different formats, with potentially both metadata-
rich and metadata-limited records.  For this reason, no overarching multi-relational can be 
defined because it will differ for each repository. Furthermore, in the LANL network 
described here, there is nothing that prevents inter-layer connections between the author-
layer to the journal-layer. This inter-layer projection would have the meaning that ‘author 
X has published in journal Y’ and, in reverse, ‘journal X has published the paper of 
author Y’.  Depending on the accuracy of the problem solving algorithm described next 
and the edge density of the network, such a connection may be appropriate.  Other 
metadata currently exist.  One particular type is usage data.  Usage data defines the 
download patterns of resources in the repository and this information can be used to 
construct usage associations between paper and journal resources [Bollen et al., 2005]. 
Furthermore, link prediction algorithms can be employed to further increase the density 
of the network if need be [Liben-Nowell & Kleinberg, 2003]. 

3. Problem Solving in the Multi-Relational Network 
 
In order to problem solve using the constructed multi-relational network, there must exist 
algorithms that utilizes the network to find solutions to particular problems. If multi-
relational network is implemented within a hyper-text representation then a simple 
manual algorithm can occur.  Researchers can move through the various resources in a 
web-surfing fashion until they find their appropriate resource. However, there are 
algorithms that can simulate this naturally occurring process. One such information 
retrieval algorithm is spreading activation [Cohen & Kjeldsen, 1987; Collins & Loftus, 
1975; Crestani, 1997a; Crestani, 1997b; Crestani & Lee, 2000] or the random walker 
model of Markov Chain analysis. Spreading activation can simulate the way in which 
individuals browse a network, and can therefore, speed up the process by which resources 
in the network are discovered. Furthermore, other algorithms such as semantic queries or 
unique instance discovery algorithms can be implemented in the network to support the 
identification of unique resources and association paths [Boanerges & et. al. 2005][Lin & 
Chalupsky, 2003]. The point is that, depending on the individual’s problem, different 
algorithms may be more appropriate than others. This paper will present one such 
algorithm that is a discrete relative-rank random walker algorithm. 
 
In order to solve the five problems presented in the introduction to this paper, a non-
converging random walker model is presented that is a discrete form of the spreading 
activation model. This algorithm is a relative-rank algorithm that ranks every node in an 
associative network relative to some initial set [Ziegler & Lausen, 2004]. The basic idea 
is to continuously map the problem representation (initial set of nodes) within and 
between the layers of the network until some desired format emerges (highly ranked 
nodes in a particular layer). The purpose of this section is to briefly describe how the 
discrete spreading activation algorithm takes a problem representation and transforms it 
into a solution by means of the multi-relational scholarly network substrate. 
 
A random walker is an indivisible processing elements that represents the traversing 
behavior of scholar within the multi-relational scholarly network (e.g. perusing the 
citation network, the co-authorship network, etc.). The random walker begins its journey 
at particular node and traverses the edges of a network in a stochastic manner (i.e. 
randomly choosing edges biased by a larger weight) in order to identify the most highly 
visited nodes. In general, if the random walker starts at node ni, then the node most 
visited after so many steps, is considered the most related node to ni. 
 
In order to simulate spreading activation and the idea the energy decays over time, a 
random walker has an energy value 
]1,1
[!
"
i#
 and a decay value
]1,0
[
!
i"
. A random 
walker’s negative energy value represents an inhibitory action and thus, a depressing of a 
highly visited node. This will become important when identifying conflict of interest 
referees in the peer-review process. A random begins its journey at some source node and 
travels the network’s edges depositing its current energy value at every node it traverses 
until its energy content has decayed below a given threshold,
[0,1]
i! "
.  The evolution of 
the random walker’s energy value is defined by the decay function represented as 

 
 
  
 
(1
)
( )
when 
( )
(
1)
0
otherwise
i
i
i
i
t
t
t
!
!
"
!
#
$ %
>
&
+
= '
&(
 
 
 
While a single random walker represents the search behavior of a single scholar, multiple 
random walkers can be used to explore more paths in the multi-relational scholarly 
network. The set P are the set of nodes that initially receive random walkers and PA, PP, 
and PJ represent nodes in the author, paper, and journal-layer respectively, P = PA! PP 
!PJ.  Furthermore a PX+ is the set of random walkers in X-layer that are positive energy 
random walkers,
[0,1]
i! "
. Likewise, a PX- refers to a set of nodes in X-layer initially 
receiving negative energy random walkers, 
[ 1,0]
i! " #
. Note that PX+ and PX- are notation 
conventions and not a function on the set P.  The initial random walker population 
propagates throughout the network, by way of the edge’s connecting the various nodes, 
until all their energy has decayed below their energy threshold value. At the end of this 
process, any node in the network with positive energy is represented as the solution set, 
S, such that, SA, SP, and SJ represent the various solution’s in author, paper, and journal 
format, S = SA ! Sp !SJ. Depending on the stage of the scholarly communication 
process, the initial distribution of random walkers have a different meaning. In some 
cases, it is important to identify papers, sometimes journals, and sometimes scholars. The 
next section will walk through an example of the proposed systems search capabilities.  
 
4. The LANL Multi-Relational Network and Five 
Problem Solving Processes 
 
The specific LANL multi-relational network described in Section 2 and the relative-rank 
random walker algorithm described in Section 3 can support a researcher through the 
development of an initial idea to the distribution of the idea’s manuscript to interested 
members in the community.  Each of the five major problem solving endeavors discussed 
in Section 1 can be addressed using the random walker problem/solution pattern-
matching algorithm within the multi-relational scholarly network. The following 
subsections discuss the five stages of the scholarly communication process enumerated in 
the introduction of this paper. 
 
4.1. 
Finding References for an Inspiration 
 
Formal papers, published in journals or proceedings, are the artifacts of scholarly 
communication and their production relies on the efforts of an author and the previously 
published research of others in the community. Every paper begins with an initial 
inspiration that grows into a formalized idea ready for distribution amongst the 
community.  In many cases, that idea is triggered by some inspirational paper that the 
researcher has read.  This initial paper is called a keystone paper.  From here, a novel idea 
must be nurtured by and tied to other papers in the domain.  So, from an initial idea, 
sparked by some keystone paper, the researcher must find the niche for this new, soon to 

be formalized, idea. Therefore, the problem is to find a set of papers that are related to the 
researchers discovered keystone paper. 
 
For this researcher’s problem, the PP+ set will contain only the keystone paper. These 
positive energy random walkers propagate within the paper-layer and between the author 
and journal-layers incrementing the energy of all the nodes they pass through. For 
example, the random walkers at t=1 will be solely contained at the node representing the 
keystone paper.  At t=2, the journal that published the keystone paper, the references of 
the keystone paper, and the authors of the keystone paper will have random walkers.  
Over time, the initial energy distribution diffuses over the network exposing all resources 
related to the initial keystone paper. At the end of the random walker algorithm there is 
an SA, SP, and an SJ set.  Since the researcher is concerned with finding potential 
references for the new idea, only the top ranked nodes of the SP set are reviewed. 
 
Author Layer
Paper Layer
P+
S
S
Journal Layer
 
Figure 1: PP+ (keystone paper) → SP (related papers) 
 
The researcher has utilized the system to match the problem—find papers related to the 
keystone paper—to a solution—a collection of related papers.  Furthermore, the 
researcher can trim the returned Sp set and use that filtered set as a PP+ set to again 
stimulate the multi-relational network to search for yet more related publications. 
 
4.2. 
Finding Collaborators to Progress the Idea 
 
Now that the researcher has a collection of papers that are representative of the initial 
idea, the researcher may be interested in finding potential collaborators.  A way to make 
this possible via the proposed system is to locate a group of researchers that are related in 
thought to the collection of papers retrieved in Section 4.1.  The intuitive notion is that 
individuals whom are related in thought to the papers derived in Section 4.1 are more 
than likely going to understand the author’s vague notion of an idea and, in turn, be able 
to provide assistance in formalizing the idea more clearly. Furthermore, if the 
researcher’s idea refers to multiple domains, then the stimulation of all the associated 
papers will provide more energy to those individuals whose research interests cover the 
full range of domains.  To determine collaborators, the random walker input node set, 
PP+, is the solution set, SP, from Section 4.1. 

 
Author Layer
Paper Layer
S
S
P+
P+
P+
Journal Layer
 
Figure 2: PP+ (related papers) → SA (collaborators) 
 
These positive energy random walkers propagate throughout the multi-relational 
network—up to the journal-layer and down to the author-layer.  Since the researcher is 
interested in finding collaborating authors, the researcher reviews the SA solution-set.  
The highly ranked authors in SA can then be contacted for discussion and a potential 
collaborative paper writing relationship may form. 
 
4.3. 
Finding a Journal for the Formalized Idea 
 
After finding papers to reference and scholars to collaborate with, the original researcher 
and his collaborators have written a paper that contains a novel idea that they believe is 
worth publishing in a journal.  In order to find a good arena to publish their work, the 
authors must find a journal that is related to the written paper. There could be many ways 
to represent this problem, but for the example demonstrated in Figure 3, the problem is 
represented as a set of nodes in both the paper and author layers. PA+ is the set of all 
collaborating authors on the new paper.  In the paper-layer, PP+ is the set of all papers 
referenced by the new unpublished paper—the papers in the bibliography of the newly 
written pre-print. 
 
Author Layer
P+
P+
Paper Layer
P+
P+
P+
S
Journal Layer
 
Figure 3: PP+ (referenced papers) · PA+ (authors) → SJ (submitting journal) 

 
Since the researchers are interested in a potential journal to publish in, the highest energy 
nodes of the SJ set are reviewed as potential publishing venues.  The intuitive idea is to 
search the network for journals that have published the papers of the cited articles and 
have published papers of the collaborating scientists and their co-authors. It is possible to 
organize the initial distribution of random walkers differently.  For example, one other 
method could be to stimulate the journals and authors of the referenced papers.  Such a 
stimulation pattern will return a list of journals related to the journals of the paper’s 
bibliography convoluted with the list of journals that are related to the authors of the 
bibliography.  Depending on the results of SJ, a different problem representation may be 
more appropriate. 
 
4.4. 
Finding Peer-Reviewers to Certify the Pre-print 
 
At this stage, the context of the scholarly communication process has shifted from the 
perspective of a collaborating team of scholars to the editors of a journal. With the paper 
written and submitted, it is up to the editors to certify the quality of the manuscript. This 
is usually accomplished by means of the peer-review process.  The editors of the journal 
locate individuals within the community for whom they believe to be experts in the 
paper’s domain.  The paper is then distributed to these referees for review. Finding 
experts in the field can be a laborious task requiring manual effort on behalf of the 
journal editor.  The proposed system can solve this problem by matching an unpublished 
paper to a set of expert individuals in the field. The unpublished paper is abstractly 
represented in a PP+ set as all its bibliographic references since its representative node 
has yet to be placed in the network—the paper has yet to be published. Secondly, a PJ+ 
set can be created to contain only the reviewing journal.  The reason for stimulating the 
reviewing journal is that the reviewing journal may want to search the web of authors 
whom have published in their journal previous. These authors understand the quality 
requirements of the journal and may be more inclined to review the paper.  Finally, and 
of most interest is the PA- set.  PA- is the set of authors whom have written the paper.  
Since an author cannot be a referee to their own paper, and since it is advisable that past 
collaborators of those authors also not be referees due to conflict of interest situations, 
these nodes should be given negative energy to inhibit the activation of themselves and 
the individuals around them in the co-authorship network (Rodriguez et al., 2006). 
 

Author Layer
Paper Layer
P-
P-
S
S
P+
P+
P+
P+
Journal Layer
 
Figure 4: PJ+ (reviewing journal) · PP+ (referenced papers) · PA- (authors) → SA 
(reviewers) 
 
The process of using a co-authorship network and a radom walker algorithm to find peer-
reviewers for a pre-print has been applied in (Rodriguez et al., 2006; Rodriguez et al., 
2007) with positive results. Furthermore, the set SA need not be trimmed to only the top 3 
or 4 individual referees, but in fact, each scholar in SA can be deemed a peer-reviewer 
and their decisions on the review process can be weighted.  Each member in that set, after 
the algorithm is complete, has some proportion of the total network energy.  This varying 
degree of energy can be used to determine the individual’s decision-making influence in 
the review process—where more expert individuals, with regards to the paper in question, 
should have more influence in the accept/reject decision of the paper (i.e. open 
commentary peer-review).  This idea has been proposed as a means of augmenting 
digital-library technology to support the peer-review process and is further developed in 
(Rodriguez et al., 2006). 
4.5. 
Finding Related Scholars to Read the Manuscript 
 
Finally, the paper has been written, submitted, and accepted.  It is the role of the journal 
to find the largest distribution-base for the paper.  Journals can aid the author and the 
community by matching the paper to a set of readers who may be interested in the newly 
published paper.  This is done by creating a PP+ set containing the newly published 
paper’s bibliographic references and creating a PA+ set containing the authors of the 
paper.  The random walker algorithm runs and the solution set, SA, is the set of all 
individuals in the author layer whom are related in thought to the newly published 
manuscript.  If these individuals have provided email address with the digital-library 
system, then these authors can be automatically contacted with an email containing the 
title of the paper, its abstract, and a URL to the paper in the digital-library repository (c.f. 
ArXiv). Furthermore, a PJ+ could be used to provide energy to authors whom have 
published in the journal previous.  Again, depending on the specific implementation, 
different problem representations will be more appropriate than others. 
 

 
Author Layer
Paper Layer
S
S
P+
S
S
P+
S
P+
P+
P+
Journal Layer
 
Figure 5: PA+ (paper authors) · PP+ (referenced papers) → SA (interested readers) 
 
Scholarly Process 
Problem Representation 
Solution 
References 
PP+ (keystone paper) 
SP (related papers) 
Collaborators 
PP+ (related papers) 
SA (potential collaborators) 
Journals 
PP+ (related papers) · PA+ (authors) 
SJ (submitting journal) 
Peer-reviewers 
PJ+  (journal) · PP+ (related papers) · PA- (authors) 
SA (potential reviewers) 
Readers 
PP+ (related papers) · PA+ (authors) 
SA (interested readers) 
Table 3: the problem and solution representations of 5 problem solving processes 
associated with scholarly communication 
 
A single multi-relational netowrk can provide the functionality to perform many complex 
problem solving tasks for the community (Table 3). This section only addressed five 
common problems encountered in the scholarly communication process.  If there exists a 
problem that can be represented as a set of authors, papers, and journals, and there exists 
a complementary solution within the same space, then the proposed system can be used 
as a medium for such problem solving. It is important to realize the different problem 
representations could potentially return different solutions (Heylighen, 1988). 
Furthermore, more advanced random walker algorithms can be employed such as the 
grammar-based random walker model for semantic networks (Rodriguez, 2007). The 
demonstration of these techniques is out of the scope of this paper and is left to a future 
publication with a more thorough analysis of the proposed system. 
 
5. Conclusion 
 
Thanks in part to digital-library repositories and the OAI-PMH protocol; what has 
emerged in the scientific community is a computational medium that supports collective 
problem solving.  Each individual stigmergetically (Holland & Melhuish, 1999) 
contributes to the evolution of this structure through their publication efforts and, in 
doing so, implicitly provides the intelligent pathways necessary for automated problem 
solving.  Many digital-library repositories maintain rich metadata records that can be 
exploited in novel ways. Currently, many repositories only support keyword searching or 

citation network surfing. The purpose of this paper was to present a novel use of 
repository metadata as a complementary search service for use by scholars in the 
community. 
 
The LANL multi-relational network proposed in this paper is one type of network that 
can be created from the metadata associated with LANL’s repository resources. There are 
still many other problem’s that can be developed that have not been formalized by this 
paper. For instance, other network layers can be instantiated such as research institutions 
and funding sources. Such layers could provide the necessary infrastructure to determine 
the most appropriate individual for a research position or the most appropriate institution 
to receive a research grant. In this way, a multi-relational network can encompass many 
more issues associated with the scholarly process. And still, outside the domain of 
science, where rich metadata information may exist, these ideas could easily be mapped 
over. To conclude, future research into multi-relational network and associated network 
analysis algorithms can be used to provide digital-library’s more tools to support the 
scholarly communication process. 
 
6. Acknowledgements 
 
These ideas were initially developed at Free University of Brussels in Belgium during 
discussions with Francis Heylighen. Johan Bollena and Thad Paulson edited drafts of this 
paper. This research was supported by a GAANN Fellowship from the U.S. Department 
of Education, the Fonds voor Wetenschappelijk Onderzoek – Vlaanderen, and the Los 
Alamos National Laboratory. 
 
 
References 
 
Bekaert, J., Hochstenbach, P., & Van de Sompel, H. (2003). “Using MPEG-21 DIDL to Represent 
Complex Digital Objects in the Los Alamos National Laboratory Digital Library”, D-Lib Magazine, 9(11). 
 
Aleman-Meza, B., Halaschek-Wiener C., Arpinar B., Ramakrishnan C., & Sheth A.P. (2005). “Ranking 
Complex Relationships on the Semantic Web”, IEEE Internet Computing, 9(3), 37-44. 
 
Bollen, J., Van de Sompel, H.., Smith, J., & Luce, R. (2005). “Toward alternative metrics of journal 
impact: A comparison of download and citation data”, Information Processing and Management, 41(6), 
1419-1440. 
 
Bollen, J., & Van de Somepl, H. (2006). “An architecture for the aggregation and analysis of scholarly 
usage data”, In Joint Conference on Digital Libraries, 298-307. 
 
Brin S., & Page, L. (1998). “The Anatomy of a Large-Scale Hypertextual Web Search Engine”, Computer 
Networks and ISDN Systems, 30(7), 107-117. 
 
Cohen, P.R., & Kjeldsen, R. (1987). “Information Retrieval by Constrained Spreading Activation in 
Semantic Networks”, Information Processing and Management, 23(4), 255-268. 
 

Collins, A.M., & Loftus, E.F. (1975). “A spreading activation theory of semantic processing”, 
Psychological Review, 82, 407-428. 
 
Crestani, F. (1997a). “Application of Spreading Activation Techniques in Information Retrieval”, Artificial 
Intelligence Review, 11(6). 
 
Crestani, F. (1997b). “Retrieving Documents by Constrained Spreading Activation on Automatically 
Constructed Hypertexts”. In Proceedings of EUFIT 97 - Fifth European Congress on Intelligent 
Techniques and Soft Computing, pp. 1210-1214, Aachen, Germany. 
 
Crestani, F., & Lee, P.L. (2000). “Searching the web by constrained spreading activation”, Information 
Processing and Management, 36(4), 585-605. 
 
Golder, S.A., & Huberman, B.A. (2006). “Usage patterns of collaborative tagging systems”, Journal of 
Information Science, 32(2),  198-208. 
 
Häggström, O. (2002). Finite Markov Chains and Algorithmic Processes. Cambridge University Press. 
 
Herlocker J.L., Konstan J.A., Terveen, L.G., Riedl J.T., (2004) “Evaluating collaborative filtering 
recommender systems”,  ACM Transactions on Information Systems, 22(1), 5-53. 
 
Heylighen, F. (1988). “Formulating the Problem of Problem-Formulation”, In Proceedings of Cybernetics 
and Systems, pp. 949-957, Kluwer Academic Publishers. 
 
Holland, O., & Melhuish, C. (1999). “Stigmergy, Self-Organization, and Sorting in Collective Robotics”, 
Artificial Life, 5 173-202. 
 
Liben-Nowell, D., & Kleinberg, J. (2003). “The Link Prediction Problem for Social Networks”. In 
Proceedings of Twelfth International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management, pp. 556-
559, New Orleans, LA: ACM. 
 
Lin, S., & Chalupsky, H. (2003). “Unsupervised Link Discovery in Multi-relational Data via Rarity 
Analysis”. In Proceedings of Third IEEE International Conference on Data Mining,  Melbourne, Florida, 
USA. 
 
Liu, X., Bollen, J., Nelson, M.L., & Van de Sompel, H. (2005). “Co-Authorship Networks in the Digital 
Library Research Community”, Information Processing and Management, 41(6), 1462-1480. 
 
Newman, M.E.J. (2001). “Scientific collaboration networks. I. Network Construction and fundamental 
results”, Physical Review, 64. 
 
Rodriguez, M.A., (2007). "Social Decision Making with Multi-Relational Networks and Grammar-Based 
Particle Swarms", In Hawaii International Conference on Systems Science, Waikoloa, Hawaii, IEEE 
Computer Society, doi:10.1109/HICSS.2007.487, LA-UR-06-2139. 
 
Rodriguez, M.A., Bollen, J., Van de Sompel, H., (2006) "The Convergence of Digital Libraries and the 
Peer-Review Process", Journal of Information Science, volume 32, number 2, pp. 149-159, ISSN: 0165-
5515, DOI: 10.1177/0165551506062327, LA-UR-O5-6468. 
 
Rodriguez, M.A., Bollen, J., Van de Sompel, H. (2007) "Mapping the Bid Behavior of Conference 
Referees", Journal of Informetrics, volume 1, number 1, LA-UR-06-0749. 
 
Ziegler, C.N., & Lausen, G. (2004). “Spreading Activation Model for Trust Propagation”, In Proceedings 
of 2004 IEEE International Conference on e-Technology, e-Commerce and e-Service, pp. 83-97, IEEE 
Computer Society