arXiv:1601.03541v2  [cs.IR]  16 Feb 2016
Question Answering on Linked Data: Challenges and
Future Directions
Saeedeh Shekarpour
Knoesis Research Center,
USA
saeedeh@knoesis.org
Kemele M. Endris
University of Bonn, Germany
endris@cs.uni-bonn.de
Ashwini Jaya Kumar
Fraunhofer IAIS, Germany
ashwinijk18@gmail.com
Denis Lukovnikov
University of Bonn, Germany
lukovnik@cs.uni-bonn.de
Kuldeep Singh
Fraunhofer IAIS, Germany
kskuldeepvit@gmail.com
Harsh Thakkar
University of Bonn, Germany
thakkar@cs.uni-bonn.de
Christoph Lange
University of Bonn /
Fraunhofer IAIS, Germany
langec@cs.uni-bonn.de
ABSTRACT
Question Answering (QA) systems are becoming the inspir-
ing model for the future of search engines. While, recently,
datasets underlying QA systems have been promoted from
unstructured datasets to structured datasets with seman-
tically highly enriched metadata, question answering sys-
tems are still facing serious challenges and are therefore not
meeting users’ expectations.
This paper provides an ex-
haustive insight of challenges known so far for building QA
systems, with a special focus on employing structured data
(i.e. knowledge graphs). It thus helps researchers to easily
spot gaps to ﬁll with their future research agendas.
Keywords
Question Answering System, Research Challenge, Speech
Interface, Query Understanding, Data Quality, Distributed
and Heterogeneous Datasets, Interoperability of Components.
1.
INTRODUCTION
The Web of Data is growing enormously (currently more
than 84 billion triples1). This ﬁgure comprises both struc-
tured and unstructured data. Still, taking advantage of this
rapidly growing amount of data is challenging. Traditional
information retrieval approaches based on keyword search
are user-friendly but fail to exploit the internal structures
of data due to their bag-of-words semantics. For searching
information on the Data Web we need similar user friendly
approaches, i.e. keyword-based interfaces, which rely on the
internal structure of the data.
1observed on 14 October 2015 at http://stats.lod2.eu/
Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference Com-
mittee (IW3C2). IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink to the
author’s site if the Material is used in electronic media.
WWW’16 Companion, April 11–15, 2016, Montréal, Québec, Canada.
ACM 978-1-4503-4144-8/16/04.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2872518.2890571 .
Question Answering (QA) is a specialized form of informa-
tion retrieval. A Question Answering system retrieves exact
answers to questions posed in natural language by the user.
While, recently, datasets underlying QA systems have been
promoted from unstructured datasets to structured datasets
with semantically highly enriched metadata, question an-
swering systems are still facing serious challenges and are
therefore not meeting users’ expectations.
Question Answering systems consists of components that
can be studied and evolved independently. These compo-
nents include (1) an input interface for obtaining a query, (2)
components for understanding, interpreting, disambiguating
and parsing the query, (3) components accessing and pro-
cessing the datasets employed (facing issues such as hetero-
geneity, quality and indexing); thus, there are also issues of
(4) interoperability among diﬀerent interacting components.
In the following, we elaborately discuss challenges related to
each aspect and consider future research directions. We close
with a conclusion and a roadmap for future work.
2.
CHALLENGES
In this section we present question answering challenges
from four diﬀerent aspects namely, (i) Speech-based inter-
face challenge, (ii) query understanding, interpreting, dis-
ambiguating and parsing challenges, (iii) data-oriented chal-
lenges (iv) interoperability of QA components challenge.
2.1
Speech Interface
Interfacing speech to QA systems has become a focus of
research for a long time. But, the main focus of research
eﬀort so far has been spent on interfacing speech to IR-based
QA systems [41, 43, ?], and much less on interfacing speech
input to QA systems based on KGs (knowledge graphs).
Typical state-of-the-art IR approaches integrate a speech
recognition (SR) unit directly with the QA system. An eﬀort
beyond merely interfacing the two units is required to enable
natural conversation in question answering system for both
IR and KG methods.
An SR system mainly consists of an acoustic model and a
language model, where the main objective is to decode what

is uttered by the user. In contrast, a general IR based QA
system comprises question processing (to extract the query
from the input and to determine the answer type), passage
retrieval, document retrieval, passage extraction, and ﬁnally
answer selection depending on the relatedness of the named
entities found to the question keyword. The accuracy of rec-
ognizing spoken words has a vital inﬂuence on the success
of the whole QA process. Ex: if ‘Jamshedpur’ (a city in In-
dia) is recognised as ‘game shed poor’ (articulation style and
duration of utterance is the key diﬀerence), then the whole
QA process is altered. The city name which constitute the
important answer type is not recognised by the QA system.
This can be avoided if there is a rich dataset to train a recog-
niser but it is not possible to have acoustic training data for
an open-domain. Hence speech recognisers are usually built
for a speciﬁed domain. The same applies for QA systems,
developing an open-domain QA is a challenge.
With the evolution of neural network based methods for
speech recognition, the whole conventional approach to speech
recognition has changed. Generally, acoustic model and lan-
guage model were built as two independent units. The devel-
opment of single neural network architecture to transcribe
an audio input is a breakthrough in the speech recognition
research [?, ?, ?]. The recognition accuracy has been tested
for a character level transcription and it is indicated that
a word/sentence level transcription can be made with the
same architecture.
In this type of single neural network
based speech recognition, language model is applied at the
output of speech recogniser. Following the same methodol-
ogy, it is possible to build an end-to-end speech interfaced
QA system with deep neural networks. Current research di-
rection is towards exploring the interface of speech to knowl-
edge graph using deep neural networks.
2.2
Understanding Questions
2.2.1
Discussion
In the case of full-ﬂedged QA over structured data, for
example over a knowledge base (KB) such as Freebase [8],
the question must be translated into a logical representation
that conveys its meaning in terms of entities, relations, types
as well as logical operators. Simpler forms of QA can also be
achieved in other ways, however, approaches without formal
translation can not express certain constraints (e.g. com-
parison). The task of translating from NL to a logical form
(semantic parsing (SP)) is characterized by the mismatch
between natural language (NL) and knowledge base (KB).
The semantic parsing problem can be divided into two parts:
(1) determining KB constituents mentioned in the NL ex-
pression and (2) determining how these constituents should
be arranged in a logical structure. The mismatch between
NL and KB brings several problems. One problem is Entity
Linking (EL), recognizing parts of NL input that refer to
an entity (NER) and determining which named entities are
meant by that part (disambiguation). A central challenge
in EL is how to take into account the context of an entity
mention in order to ﬁnd the correct meaning (disambigua-
tion). Another challenge is ﬁnding an optimal set of suitable
candidates for a mention, where the lexicon (mapping be-
tween words/phrases and entities) plays an important role.
A problem bordering both disambiguation and candidate
generation is the large number of entities a word can refer
to (e.g. the thousands of possible “John”’s when confronted
with “John starred in 1984”).
Another problem is relation detection and classiﬁcation.
Given an NL phrase, we want to determine which KB re-
lation is implied by the phrase. Sometimes, the relation is
explicitly denoted by a NL constituent, for example verb-
mediated statements (e.g. “X married Y ”), in which case a
lexicon can help a lot to solve the problem. However, in gen-
eral, a lexicon-based approach is not suﬃcient. Sometimes
there are no relation-speciﬁc words in the sentence. Some-
times prepositions are used, for example “works by Repin”
or “cars from Germany” and sometimes the semantics of the
relations and the entities/types they connect are lexicalized
as one, for example, “Russian chemists” or “Tolstoy plays”.
Such cases require context-based inference, taking into ac-
count the semantics of the entities that would be connected
by the to-be-determined relation (which in turn is related to
parsing).
Merely linking entities and recognizing the relations is
not suﬃcient to produce a logical representation that can
be used to query a data source. The remaining problem is
to determine the overall logical structure of the NL input.
This problem becomes diﬃcult for longer, more complex sen-
tences, where diﬀerent linguistic phenomena, such as coor-
dination and co-reference, must be handled. Formal gram-
mars, such as CCG [49], can help to parse NL input. CCG
in particular is well-suited for semantic parsing because of
its transparent interface between syntactic structure and un-
derlying semantic form. One problem with grammar-based
semantic parsers is their rigidity, which is not well-suited for
incomplete input as often found in real-world QA scenarios.
Some works have explored learning relaxed grammars [60]
to handle such input.
The straightforward way of training semantic parsers re-
quires training data consisting of NL sentences annotated
with the corresponding logical representation, which are very
cumbersome to obtain. Recent works have explored diﬀerent
ways to reduce the annotation eﬀort in order to bypass this
challenge. One proposed way is to train on question-answer
pairs instead [7].
Another way is to automatically gener-
ate training data from the KB and/or from entity-linked
corpora [39] (e.g. ClueWeb). Training with paraphrasing
corpora [7] is another technique explored in several works to
improve the range of expressions the system will be able to
cover.
2.2.2
Future directions
Recently, impressive advances in diﬀerent tasks in Artiﬁ-
cial Intelligence have been achieved using deep learning tech-
niques. Embedding-based language models, such as Word2Vec [34,
35] and GloVe [37], have helped to improve performance in
many NLP tasks. One of the most interesting and the most
promising future directions for semantic parsing and ques-
tion answering is further exploration of deep learning tech-
niques in their context.
Using deep learning to better understand questions can be
done by using (possibly custom-trained) word (, word sense
and entity) embeddings, which capture their syntactic and
semantic properties, as features to improve existing work-
ﬂows. However, a “deeper” approach would be to also devise
new models that provide the machine with more freedom
to ﬁgure out how to accomplish the task. An excellent and
very recent example in NLP is the Dynamic Memory Net-

work (DMN [29]), that does not use any manually engineered
features or problem-tailored models, and yet achieves state-
of-the-art performance on all tested tasks, which are disjoint
enough to leave one impressed (POS tagging, co-reference
resolution, sentiment analysis and Question Answering on
the bAbI dataset).
The DMN is one of the works focus-
ing on attention and memory in deep learning that enables
the neural network to reason more freely. We share the be-
lief that the investigation and application of more advanced
deep learning models (such as DMN and NTM [21]) could
yield impressive results for diﬀerent tasks in AI, including
question answering.
Recursive, convolutional (CNN) and recurrent (RNN) neu-
ral networks are widely used in recent neural network-based
approaches. Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN), a spe-
cial case of recursive NNs are well-explored for computer
vision. Recursive NNs have also been applied for parsing
and sentiment analysis. RNNs produce state-of-the-art re-
sults in speech processing as well as in NLP because of their
natural vigor for processing variable-length sequences. They
have been applied for machine translation (SMT) [13], lan-
guage generation (NLG) [50], language modeling and more
and are also fundamental for the success of the DMN and
the NTM.
Even though the DMN has not yet been applied to our
task of structured QA, some recent works, such as the rel-
atively simple embedding-based work of Bordes et al.
[?]
(which outperformed ParaSempre [7] on WebQuestions)
and the SMT-like SP approach of [?] seem to acknowledge
the promise of neural approaches with embeddings.
An additional interesting direction is the investigation of
joint models for the sub-problems involved in question inter-
pretation (EL, co-reference resolution, parsing, . . . ). Many
tasks in NLP depend on each other to some degree, moti-
vating the investigation of eﬃcient approaches to make the
decisions for those tasks jointly. For example, co-reference
resolution and EL can beneﬁt from each other as entity in-
formation from a KB can serve as quite powerful features
for co-reference resolution and co-reference resolution in turn
can improve EL as it transfers KB features to phrases where
anaphora refer to entities. Factor Graphs (and Markov Net-
works) are by nature very well-suited for explicit joint mod-
els (e.g. [47]).
However, a more internal kind of joint in-
ference could also be achieved within a neural architecture
(e.g. the DMN).
However, it is worth noting that training advanced neu-
ral models and explicit joint models can be a diﬃcult task
because of the large number of training parameters and co-
dependence of these parameters. Deep learning typically re-
lies on the availability of large datasets. However, the whole
task to be solved can be divided in two parts, one focusing
on representation learning, which can accomplished in an
unsupervised setting (with large amounts of data) and the
second part relying on and possibly ﬁne-tuning the repre-
sentations obtained in the ﬁrst part in a supervised training
setting (requiring annotated task-speciﬁc data). For explicit
joint models, data capturing the dependence between diﬀer-
ent task-speciﬁc parts of the models (e.g. annotated for both
EL and co-reference) are required and the eﬃcient training
of such models is a very relevant current topic of investiga-
tion.
The concluding thought is that the further investigation
of language [34, 35, 37, 24] and knowledge modeling [20,
56, 40, 48, 12] and powerful deep neural architectures with
self-regulating abilities (attention, memory) as well as im-
plicit or explicit joint models will continue to push the state
of the art in QA. Well-designed deep neural architectures,
given proper supervision and powerful input models, have
the potential to learn to solve many diﬀerent NLU prob-
lems robustly with minimal customizations, eliminating the
need for carefully engineered features, strict formalisms to
extract complex structures or pipelines arranging problem-
tailored algorithms. We believe that these lines of research
in QA could be the next yellow brick [5] in the road to true
AI, which has fascinated humanity since the ancient tales of
Talos and Yan Shi’s mechanical men.
2.3
Data challenges
2.3.1
Indexing Heterogeneous Datasets
A typical QA system is empirically only as good as the
performance of its indexing module [17]. The performance
of indexing serves as an upper bound to the overall output of
the QA system, since it can process only as much data as is
being presented/served to it from the indices. The precision
and recall of the system may be good, but if all or most of
the top relevant documents are not indexed in the system,
the system performance suﬀers and hence does the end user.
Many researchers have compared eﬀectiveness across a va-
riety of indexing techniques. Their studies show improve-
ment if multiple techniques were combined compared to any
single individual indexing technique [38]. In the present sce-
nario, information retrieval systems are carefully tailored
and optimized to deliver highly accurate results for speciﬁc
tasks. Over the years, eﬀorts of developing such task speciﬁc
systems have been diversiﬁed based on a variety of factors
discussed in the following.
Based on the type of the data and the application setting,
a wide range of indexing techniques are deployed.
They
can broadly be categorized into three categories based on
the format and type of data indexed, namely: structured
(e.g. RDF, SQL, etc.), semi-structured (e.g. HTML, XML,
JSON, CSV, etc.)
and/or unstructured data (e.g.
text
dumps). They are further distinguished by the type of tech-
nique they use for indexing and/or also by the type of queries
that a particular technique can address. The diﬀerent tech-
niques inherently make use of a wide spectrum of underlying
fundamental data structures in order to achieve the desirable
result.
Most of the systems dealing with unstructured or semi-
structured data make use of inverted indices and lists for
indexing. For structured datasets, a variety of data struc-
tures such as AVL trees, B-Trees, sparse indices, IR trees,
etc., have been developed in the past decades. Many systems
combine two or more data structures to maintain diﬀerent
indices for diﬀerent data attributes. We present a short sur-
vey of indexing platforms and data structures used in a wide
range of QA systems in table 1.
Table 1 is an excerpt from a table in our exhaustive sur-
vey of open QA systems2. Our current work in progress is
focusing on benchmarking diﬀerent datasets such as Wiki-
data [55], DBpedia [2], and FreeBase [9] against a wide spec-
2The
full
data
collection
can
be
found
at
https://goo.gl/FM1LM9

System
Data structure used
Platform used for indexing
SWSE/YARS2 [23]
Sparse, Inverted Indices for RDF quads
Lucene
Sindice [36]
Inverted Index and On-disk persistent stor-
age
Solr
Sina [45]
Bitmap index on RDF quads (in total 5 in-
dices are maintained: 2 full RDF quad in-
dices, 3 partial RDF quad indices)
OpenLink Virtuoso
HAWK [54]
*N/A
*N/A
TBSL [53]
Inverted Index
Solr
Ephyra [44]
Inverted index
Lemur-Indri
PowerAqua [32]
Inverted index
Lucene (two indices are prepared taxonomi-
cally)
AquaLog [31]
*N/A
GATE MIMIR possibly with Lucene
Sig.ma [52]
Inverted Index and On-disk persistent stor-
age
Solr
QUADS [57]
Inverted index
Lucene
MAYA [27]
(key, value) pairs
Traditional index with RDBMS
ESTER [4]
Extended inverted index ˆa˘A¸S inverted index
with scores for each word ; combines preﬁx
search and join operations
Proprietary module
QAST [25]
Inverted index with term weighting ((Mini-
mal Span Weighting))
Lucene
FREyA [15]
*N/A
Sesame/OWLIM (aka GraphDB))
QAKIS [11]
*N/A
*N/A
MEANS [6]
Inverted index
Terrier
Watson/DeepQA [26, 18]
Persistent disk caching
Watson Explorer Engine XML (VXML)
Table 1: Comparison of the indexing platforms and data structures used by diﬀerent QA systems. *N/A =
no data available
trum of indexing library platforms, such as Indri3, Solr4,
ElasticSearch5, Sphinx6, Neo4j7, Titan8, Xapian9, and Ter-
rier10.
2.3.2
Data Quality Challenge
Recent advancements in the ﬁelds of Web of Data and
Data Science have led to an outburst of standards related to
structured data11 such as RDF(a), Linked Data, schema.org,
etc., to an increasing amount of such data, and to a wide
range of tools to produce, manage and consume such data.
To be available for ready consumption, especially in open
question answering systems, any such data sources should
meet a certain level of quality, e.g., deﬁned by benchmarks.
Quality can generally be deﬁned as “ﬁtness for use”, but
there are a lot of concrete factors that inﬂuence a dataset’s
ﬁtness for use in question answering12 settings and in spe-
ciﬁc application domains. Recently, a number of research
activities have been concerned with automating the assess-
3http://www.lemurproject.org/indri.php
4http://lucene.apache.org/solr/
5https://www.elastic.co/products/elasticsearch
6http://sphinxsearch.com/
7http://neo4j.com/
8http://thinkaurelius.github.io/titan/
9http://xapian.org/
10http://www.terrier.org/
11The amount not only of structured, but also of semi-
structured and unstructured data available online is also
steadily increasing; however, for the purpose of our work
we assume that such data has ﬁrst been translated to the
RDF data model using standard tools, e.g. from the Linked
Data Stack [3].
12In this section, we do not abbreviate “question answering”
as “QA” to avoid confusion with “quality assessment”.
ment of linked data quality. Debattista, who has developed
one such tool (Luzzu [16]), provides an overview of other
state-of-the-art tools [16], including one by Flemming [19],
as well as Sieve [33], RDFUnit [28], TripleCheckMate [58],
LinkQA [22], and LiQuate [42]. In this section, we summa-
rize the concrete criteria by which the quality of linked data
can be assessed, with a special focus on those criteria that
are relevant to question answering.
In a comprehensive review of literature and systems, Sa-
vors et al. [59] have identiﬁed the dimensions of linked data
quality and categorized them as follows:
• Accessibility dimensions: This category covers as-
pects related to retrieving and accessing data, which
includes full or partial access and diﬀerent technical
means of access (e.g.
the possibility to download a
data dump vs. the availability of a SPARQL endpoint,
i.e. a standardized query interface).
– Availability is generally deﬁned as the ease of ac-
cess with which particular information is obtain-
able or rapidly retrievable for readily consump-
tion.
In a linked data context, availability can
be referred to as the accessibility of a SPARQL
endpoint or RDF dumps or dereferenceable URIs.
– Interlinking is relevant as it refers to the data in-
tegration and interoperability. The output of in-
terlinking is a linkset, i.e. a set of RDF triples
linking subjects and recognized related objects.
– Security denotes the degree to which a particular
dataset is resistant to misuse or alteration with-
out appropriate user access rights.
– Veriﬁability, usually by an unbiased third party,
addresses the authenticity and correctness of the

dataset. Veriﬁability is typically enabled by prove-
nance metadata.
• Intrinsic dimensions: This category covers aspects
that are independent of the user’s context, or the out
of the application context ˆa˘A¸S such as accuracy and
consistency.
– Accuracy refers to the degree of a dataset cor-
rectly representing the captured real world facts
and ﬁgures in the form of information with high
precision.
– Consistency refers to the independence from log-
ical, formal or representational contradictions of
a dataset with respect to others.
– Completeness is referred to as the degree to which
information in the dataset is complete or not miss-
ing. The dataset should have all the required ob-
jects or values for a given task in order to be con-
sidered as complete.
Thus, arguing intuitively,
completeness is one of the concrete metrics for
linked data quality assessment.
• Contextual dimensions: This category is concerned
with the context of the task being pursued.
– Timeliness is concerned with the freshness of data
over time or timeliness, i.e. the regularity of up-
dates or merges and so on.
– Understandability can be achieved by providing
appropriate human readable annotations to a dataset
and its entities, and by consistently following a
certain regular expression as a pattern for form-
ing entity URIs.
– Trustworthiness is concerned with the reliability
or trustworthiness of the data and its source.
• Representational dimensions: This category is con-
cerned with the design and representation of the data
and its schema. For instance, understandability and
interpretability.
– Interpretability refers to adhering to the standard
practice of representing information using appro-
priate notations, symbols, units and languages.
Data quality dimensions in all of these categories can
be relevant in question answering scenarios.
In a prelim-
inary study [51], we evaluated few selected metrics men-
tioned above on two popular datasets of linked data namely,
Wikidata and DBpedia13. We evaluated the subsections ex-
tracted from these datasets on categories such as “politi-
cians”, “Movies”, “Restaurants” and “Soccer players”. The
slices have been made available to the common public and
can be found:
https://goo.gl/Kn6Fom (DBpedia slices),
https://goo.gl/5aTkLp (Wikidata slices). The detailed in-
formation regarding the data slice statistics can be found
from the work [51] which is selected from a detailed report
made public at https://goo.gl/ignzzI.
For this evalu-
ation we have obtained four slices of both DBpedia and
13Freebase used to be another popular cross-domain dataset
but support for it has expired, which is why we did not
consider it; cf. https://www.freebase.com/.
Wikidata, namely Restaurants, Politicians, Films and Soc-
cer players. From this preliminary study, we could so far ob-
serve that Wikidata dominates DBpedia for the considered
setting.
The detailed scores and discussion can be found
from the mentioned work and the spreadsheet.
Our next step is (i) implement and evaluated the pending
metric from the above work and (ii) to identify more system-
atically what other dimensions and metrics of data quality
are speciﬁcally relevant in the typical application domains of
question answering, or suﬃcient for determining a dataset’s
“ﬁtness” for question answering. Having identiﬁed such di-
mensions, we have two goals: (a) identifying datasets that
are suitable for question answering at all, and (b) evaluate
these metrics on a major part of the LOD Cloud14 datasets,
identifying more speciﬁcally what quality problems they still
suﬀer from.
Regarding implementation, in our recent study [51], we
evaluated the results on DBpedia and Wikidata slices using
the metrics that the Luzzu linked data quality assessment
framework already provides. We look forward to extending
Luzzu to use in a question answering setting, that further
existing implementations of metrics in Luzzu can be specif-
ically adapted to make them suitable for quality assessment
related to question answering, and that, ﬁnally, Luzzu’s ﬂex-
ible extensibility even enables us to implement new metrics
that may be required. In summary, our near-future work will
be concerned with deﬁning a generally and ﬂexibly applica-
ble framework for automating the process of rigorously as-
sessing the quality of linked datasets for question answering
by identifying, formalizing and implementing the required
metrics.
2.3.3
Distributed Heterogeneous Datasets
The decentralized architecture of the Web has produced a
wealth of knowledge distributed across diﬀerent data sources
and diﬀerent data types. Question answering systems con-
sume diﬀerent types of data: structured, semi-structured or
unstructured data. Most question answering systems uses ei-
ther of these types of data to answer user queries. Only few
systems exploit the wealth of data on the Web by combin-
ing these types of data. Hybrid question answering systems
are able to answer queries by combining both structured
and unstructured types of data. HAWK [54], for instance,
provides entity search for hybrid question answering using
Linked Data and textual data. HAWK is able to achieve an
F-measure of up to 0.68 on the QALD-4 benchmark.
Most question answering systems today uses a single source
to answer users question.
It should rather be possible to
answer questions imposed by a user by combining diﬀer-
ent interconnected sources. The challenges imposed by the
distributed nature of the Web are, on the one hand, ﬁnd-
ing the right sources that can answer user query and, on
the other hand, integrating partial answers found from dif-
ferent sources. Source selection is one of the challenges in
federated question answering approaches. In [46], the au-
thors presented an approach to construct a federated query
from user supplied (natural language) questions using dis-
ambiguated resources.
Answers may come from diﬀerent sources which have dif-
ferent data quality and trust levels, ranking and fusion of
data should be applied to select the best sources.
14LOD Cloud: http://lod-cloud.net/

The amount of data to be used to answer users’ queries
should also be balanced with the response time.
2.4
Interoperability Challenge
The ﬁeld of QA is so vast that the list of diﬀerent QA
systems can go long.
Many Question Answering systems
Based on speciﬁc domains have been developed. Domain-
speciﬁc QA systems, for example [1] are limited to a speciﬁc
knowledge, for example medicine. They are known as closed
domain QA systems.
However, when scope is limited to
an explicit domain or ontology, there are less chances of
ambiguity and high accuracy of answers. It is also diﬃcult
and costly to extend closed domain systems to a new domain
or reusing it in implementing a new system.To overcome the
limitations of closed domain QA systems, researchers have
shifted their focus to open domain QA systems. FREyA [14],
QAKiS [10], and PowerAqua [30] are few examples of open
domain QA systems which use publicly available semantic
knowledge for example DBpedia [2].
While many of these system achieved signiﬁcant perfor-
mance for special use cases, a shortage was observed in all
of them. We ﬁgured out that the existing QA systems suf-
fer from the following drawbacks: (1) potential of reusing
its components is very weak, (2) extension of the compo-
nents is problematic, and (3) interoperability between the
employed components are not systematically deﬁned. There
is little, but a work towards interoperable architecture, e.g.
QA archiecture developed by OKBQA15. Interoperability of
diﬀerent QA tools and components is required to enhance
QA process which is still missing at the conceptual level and
currently more focused on implementation details. There-
fore, there is a need for a descriptive approach that deﬁne a
conceptual view of QA systems. This approach must cover
all needs of current QA systems and be abstracted from im-
plementation details. Moreover it must be open such that it
can be used in future QA systems. The generalized approach
for architecture or ontology of a QA system and semantic
search must focus to bring all state-of-the advancement of
QA under a single umbrella [?]. We envisioned that a gener-
alized vocabulary for QA will be an abstraction level on top
of all the existing QA approaches and will provide interoper-
ability and exchangeability between them. This generalized
vocabulary can be further used to integrate diﬀerent com-
ponents and web services within a QA system [?].
3.
CONCLUSION AND FUTURE ROADMAP
In this paper, we presented an exhaustive overview of all
the open challenges being still controversial for developing
a question answering system. The intuition is that Linked
Data which provides advantages such as semantic metadata
and interlinked dataset can inﬂuence all of the four major
elements (i.e.
interface, parsing, data and component in-
teroperability) which play a key role in Question Answering
systems.
As our future research agenda, we are steering
our research on all of the discussed issues with the focus
of employing Linked Data technology to promote question
answering capabilities.
Acknowledgments Parts of this work received funding
from the European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and in-
15Open
Knowledge
base
and
Question
Answering
(http://okbqa.org)
novation program under the Marie Sklodowska-Curie grant
agreement No. 642795 (WDAqua project).
4.
ADDITIONAL AUTHORS
5.
REFERENCES
[1] Asma Ben Abacha and Pierre Zweigenbaum. Medical
question answering: translating medical questions into
sparql queries. In ACM International Health
Informatics Symposium, IHI ’12, Miami, FL, USA,
January 28-30, 2012, pages 41–50, 2012.
[2] S¨oren Auer, Christian Bizer, Georgi Kobilarov, Jens
Lehmann, Richard Cyganiak, and Zachary G. Ives.
Dbpedia: A nucleus for a web of open data. In The
Semantic Web, 6th International Semantic Web
Conference, 2nd Asian Semantic Web Conference,
ISWC 2007 + ASWC 2007, Busan, Korea, November
11-15, 2007., pages 722–735, 2007.
[3] S¨oren Auer, Jens Lehmann, and Axel-Cyrille Ngonga
Ngomo. Introduction to linked data and its lifecycle
on the web. In Reasoning Web, pages 1–75, 2011.
[4] Holger Bast, Alexandru Chitea, Fabian M Suchanek,
and Ingmar Weber. ESTER : Eﬃcient Search on Text
, Entities , and Relations. Search, (2):671–678, 2007.
[5] L Frank Baum. The wonderful wizard of Oz. Oxford
University Press, 2008.
[6] Asma Ben Abacha and Pierre Zweigenbaum. MEANS:
A medical question-answering system combining NLP
techniques and semantic Web technologies.
Information Processing & Management,
51(5):570–594, 2015.
[7] Jonathan Berant and Percy Liang. Semantic parsing
via paraphrasing. In Proceedings of ACL, volume 7,
page 92, 2014.
[8] Kurt Bollacker, Colin Evans, Praveen Paritosh, Tim
Sturge, and Jamie Taylor. Freebase: a collaboratively
created graph database for structuring human
knowledge. In Proceedings of the 2008 ACM SIGMOD
international conference on Management of data,
pages 1247–1250. ACM, 2008.
[9] Kurt D. Bollacker, Robert P. Cook, and Patrick Tufts.
Freebase: A shared database of structured general
human knowledge. In Proceedings of the
Twenty-Second AAAI Conference on Artiﬁcial
Intelligence, July 22-26, 2007, Vancouver, British
Columbia, Canada, pages 1962–1963, 2007.
[10] E. Cabrio, J. Cojan, A. P. Aprosio, B. Magnini,
A. Lavelli, and F. Gandon. QAKiS: an open domain
QA system based on relational patterns. In Proc. of
the ISWC 2012 Posters & Demonstrations, 2012.
[11] Elena Cabrio, Julien Cojan, Alessio Palmero Aprosio,
Bernardo Magnini, Alberto Lavelli, and Fabien
Gandon. Qakis: an open domain qa system based on
relational patterns. In 11th International Semantic
Web Conference ISWC 2012, page 9. Citeseer, 2012.
[12] Kai-Wei Chang, Wen-tau Yih, Bishan Yang, and
Christopher Meek. Typed tensor decomposition of
knowledge bases for relation extraction. In Proceedings
of the 2014 Conference on Empirical Methods in
Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), pages
1568–1579, 2014.

[13] Kyunghyun Cho, Bart Van Merri¨enboer, Caglar
Gulcehre, Dzmitry Bahdanau, Fethi Bougares, Holger
Schwenk, and Yoshua Bengio. Learning phrase
representations using rnn encoder-decoder for
statistical machine translation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1406.1078, 2014.
[14] D. Damljanovic, M. Agatonovic, and H. Cunningham.
Freya: An interactive way of querying linked data
using natural language. In ESWC Workshops, 2011.
[15] Danica Damljanovic, Milan Agatonovic, and Hamish
Cunningham. Freya: An interactive way of querying
linked data using natural language. In The Semantic
Web: ESWC 2011 Workshops, pages 125–138.
Springer, 2012.
[16] Jeremy Debattista, S¨oren Auer, and Christoph Lange.
Luzzu – a framework for linked data quality analysis.
In Semantic Computing, 2016.
[17] Xin Dong and Alon Halevy. Indexing dataspaces. In
Proceedings of the 2007 ACM SIGMOD international
conference on Management of data, pages 43–54.
ACM, 2007.
[18] David Ferrucci, Eric Brown, Jennifer Chu-Carroll,
James Fan, David Gondek, Aditya A Kalyanpur,
Adam Lally, J William Murdock, Eric Nyberg, John
Prager, et al. Building watson: An overview of the
deepqa project. AI magazine, 31(3):59–79, 2010.
[19] Annika Flemming. Quality
Characteristics of Linked Data Publishing Datasources.
http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/trdf/index.php?\title=Quality_Criteria_for_Linked_Data_sources,
2010. [Online; accessed 13-February-2014].
[20] Alberto Garc´ıa-Dur´an, Antoine Bordes, and Nicolas
Usunier. Eﬀective blending of two and three-way
interactions for modeling multi-relational data. In
Machine Learning and Knowledge Discovery in
Databases, pages 434–449. Springer, 2014.
[21] Alex Graves, Greg Wayne, and Ivo Danihelka. Neural
turing machines. arXiv preprint arXiv:1410.5401,
2014.
[22] Christophe Gu´eret, Paul Groth, Claus Stadler, and
Jens Lehmann. Assessing linked data mappings using
network measures. In The Semantic Web: Research
and Applications, pages 87–102. Springer, 2012.
[23] Andreas Harth, J¨urgen Umbrich, Aidan Hogan, and
Stefan Decker. YARS2: A federated repository for
querying graph structured data from the Web. Lecture
Notes in Computer Science (including subseries
Lecture Notes in Artiﬁcial Intelligence and Lecture
Notes in Bioinformatics), 4825 LNCS:211–224, 2007.
[24] Ignacio Iacobacci, Mohammad Taher Pilehvar, and
Roberto Navigli. SENSEMBED: Learning Sense
Embeddings for Word and Relational Similarity. In
Proceedings of the 53rd Annual Meeting of the
Association for Computational Linguistics, Beijing,
China, 2015.
[25] Wittawat Jitkrittum, Choochart Haruechaiyasak, and
Thanaruk Theeramunkong. QAST : Question
Answering System for Thai Wikipedia. Knowledge
Creation Diﬀusion Utilization, (August):11–14, 2009.
[26] Aditya Kalyanpur, Branimir K Boguraev, Siddharth
Patwardhan, J William Murdock, Adam Lally, Chris
Welty, John M Prager, Bonaventura Coppola, Achille
Fokoue-Nkoutche, Lei Zhang, et al. Structured data
and inference in deepqa. IBM Journal of Research and
Development, 56(3.4):10–1, 2012.
[27] H. Kim, Kyungsun Kim, G.G. Lee, and Jungyun Seo.
MAYA: A fast question-answering system based on a
predictive answer indexer. Proceedings of the workshop
on Open-domain question answering-Volume 12,
page 8, 2001.
[28] Dimitris Kontokostas, Patrick Westphal, S¨oren Auer,
Sebastian Hellmann, Jens Lehmann, Roland
Cornelissen, and Amrapali Zaveri. Test-driven
evaluation of linked data quality. In Proceedings of the
23rd international conference on World Wide Web,
pages 747–758. ACM, 2014.
[29] Ankit Kumar, Ozan Irsoy, Jonathan Su, James
Bradbury, Robert English, Brian Pierce, Peter
Ondruska, Ishaan Gulrajani, and Richard Socher. Ask
me anything: Dynamic memory networks for natural
language processing. arXiv preprint arXiv:1506.07285,
2015.
[30] Vanessa Lopez, Miriam Fern´andez, Enrico Motta, and
Nico Stieler. Poweraqua: Supporting users in querying
and exploring the semantic web. Semantic Web,
3(3):249–265, 2011.
[31] Vanessa Lopez, Michele Pasin, and Enrico Motta.
Aqualog: An ontology-portable question answering
system for the semantic web. In The Semantic Web:
Research and Applications, pages 546–562. Springer,
2005.
[32] Vanessa Lopez, Victoria Uren, Marta Reka Sabou, and
Enrico Motta. Cross ontology query answering on the
semantic web: an initial evaluation. In Proceedings of
the ﬁfth international conference on Knowledge
capture, pages 17–24. ACM, 2009.
[33] Pablo N Mendes, Hannes M¨uhleisen, and Christian
Bizer. Sieve: linked data quality assessment and
fusion. In Proceedings of the 2012 Joint EDBT/ICDT
Workshops, pages 116–123. ACM, 2012.
[34] Tomas Mikolov, Kai Chen, Greg Corrado, and Jeﬀrey
Dean. Eﬃcient estimation of word representations in
vector space. arXiv preprint arXiv:1301.3781, 2013.
[35] Tomas Mikolov, Ilya Sutskever, Kai Chen, Greg S
Corrado, and JeﬀDean. Distributed representations of
words and phrases and their compositionality. In
Advances in neural information processing systems,
pages 3111–3119, 2013.
[36] Eyal Oren, Renaud Delbru, Michele Catasta, and
Richard Cyganiak. Sindice . com : A
Document-oriented Lookup Index for Open Linked
Data.
[37] Jeﬀrey Pennington, Richard Socher, and
Christopher D Manning. Glove: Global vectors for
word representation. Proceedings of the Empiricial
Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP
2014), 12:1532–1543, 2014.
[38] TB Rajashekar and Bruce W Croft. Combining
automatic and manual index representations in
probabilistic retrieval. Journal of the American society
for information science, 46(4):272–283, 1995.
[39] Siva Reddy, Mirella Lapata, and Mark Steedman.
Large-scale semantic parsing without question-answer
pairs. Transactions of the Association for
Computational Linguistics, 2:377–392, 2014.

[40] Sebastian Riedel, Limin Yao, Andrew McCallum, and
Benjamin M Marlin. Relation extraction with matrix
factorization and universal schemas. 2013.
[41] Paolo Rosso, Lluis-F. Hurtado, Encarna Segarra, and
Emilio Sanchis. On the voice-activated question
answering. IEEE Trans. on Systems, Man and
Cybernetics-Part C: Applications and Reviews,
42(1):75–85, Jan 2012.
[42] Edna Ruckhaus, Oriana Baldiz´an, and Mar´ıa-Esther
Vidal. Analyzing linked data quality with liquate. In
On the Move to Meaningful Internet Systems: OTM
2013 Workshops, pages 629–638. Springer, 2013.
[43] Emilio Sanchis, Davide Buscaldi, Sergio Grau, Lluis
Hurtado, and David Griol. Spoken qa based on a
passage retrieval engine. In Spoken Language
Technology Workshop, 2006. IEEE, pages 62–65.
IEEE, 2006.
[44] Nico Schlaefer, Jeongwoo Ko, Justin Betteridge,
Manas A Pathak, Eric Nyberg, and Guido Sautter.
Semantic extensions of the ephyra qa system for trec
2007. In TREC, 2007.
[45] Saeedeh Shekarpour, Edgard Marx,
Axel-Cyrille Ngonga Ngomo, and S¨oren Auer. Sina:
Semantic interpretation of user queries for question
answering on interlinked data. Web Semantics:
Science, Services and Agents on the World Wide Web,
30:39–51, 2015.
[46] Saeedeh Shekarpour, Axel-Cyrille Ngonga Ngomo, and
S¨oren Auer. Question Answering on interlinked data.
In WWW, pages 1145–1156, 2013.
[47] Sameer Singh, Sebastian Riedel, Brian Martin, Jiaping
Zheng, and Andrew McCallum. Joint inference of
entities, relations, and coreference. In Proceedings of
the 2013 workshop on Automated knowledge base
construction, pages 1–6. ACM, 2013.
[48] Richard Socher, Danqi Chen, Christopher D Manning,
and Andrew Ng. Reasoning with neural tensor
networks for knowledge base completion. In Advances
in Neural Information Processing Systems, pages
926–934, 2013.
[49] Mark Steedman and Jason Baldridge. Combinatory
categorial grammar. Non-Transformational Syntax:
Formal and Explicit Models of Grammar.
Wiley-Blackwell, 2011.
[50] Ilya Sutskever, James Martens, and Geoﬀrey E
Hinton. Generating text with recurrent neural
networks. In Proceedings of the 28th International
Conference on Machine Learning (ICML-11), pages
1017–1024, 2011.
[51] Harsh Thakkar, Kemele M. Endris, Jose M. Garica,
Jeremy Debattista, Christoph Lange, and Soren Auer.
Are linked datasets ﬁt for open-domain question
answering? a quality assessment.
http://harshthakkar.in/wp-
content/uploads/2012/06/wims.pdf,
2016.
[52] Giovanni Tummarello, Richard Cyganiak, Michele
Catasta, Szymon Danielczyk, Renaud Delbru, and
Stefan Decker. Sig. ma: Live views on the web of data.
Web Semantics: Science, Services and Agents on the
World Wide Web, 8(4):355–364, 2010.
[53] Christina Unger, Lorenz B¨uhmann, Jens Lehmann,
Axel-Cyrille Ngonga Ngomo, Daniel Gerber, and
Philipp Cimiano. Template-based question answering
over rdf data. Proceedings of the 21st international
conference on World Wide Web, (639–648), 2012.
[54] Ricardo Usbeck, Axel-Cyrille Ngonga Ngomo, Lorenz
B¨uhmann, and Christina Unger. HAWK ˆa˘A¸S Hybrid
Question Answering using Linked Data. 2014.
[55] Denny Vrandeˇci´c and Markus Kr¨otzsch. Wikidata: a
free collaborative knowledgebase. Communications of
the ACM, 57(10):78–85, 2014.
[56] Zhen Wang, Jianwen Zhang, Jianlin Feng, and Zheng
Chen. Knowledge graph embedding by translating on
hyperplanes. In Proceedings of the Twenty-Eighth
AAAI Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence, pages
1112–1119. Citeseer, 2014.
[57] Zi Yang, Ying Li, James Cai, and Eric Nyberg.
QUADS : Question Answering for Decision Support.
Proc. SIGIR 2014, pages 375–384, 2014.
[58] Amrapali Zaveri, Dimitris Kontokostas, Mohamed A
Sherif, Lorenz B¨uhmann, Mohamed Morsey, S¨oren
Auer, and Jens Lehmann. User-driven quality
evaluation of dbpedia. In Proceedings of the 9th
International Conference on Semantic Systems, pages
97–104. ACM, 2013.
[59] Amrapali Zaveri, Anisa Rula, Andrea Maurino,
Ricardo Pietrobon, Jens Lehmann, and S¨oren Auer.
Quality assessment for linked data. Semantic Web
Journal, preprint(preprint), 2015.
[60] Luke S Zettlemoyer and Michael Collins. Online
learning of relaxed ccg grammars for parsing to logical
form. In EMNLP-CoNLL, pages 678–687, 2007.