No One is Perfect: Analysing the Performance of Question
Answering Components over the DBpedia Knowledge Graph
Kuldeep Singh
Fraunhofer IAIS
Sankt Augustin, Germany
kuldeep.singh@iais.fraunhofer.de
Ioanna Lytra
University of Bonn & Fraunhofer
IAIS
Bonn, Germany
lytra@cs.uni-bonn.de
Arun Sethupat Radhakrishna
University of Minnesota
Minnesota, USA
sethu021@umn.edu
Saeedeh Shekarpour
University of Dayton
Dayton, USA
sshekarpour1@udayton.edu
Maria-Esther Vidal
TIB & L3S Research Centre
Hannover, Germany
lytra@cs.uni-bonn.de
Jens Lehmann
University of Bonn & Fraunhofer
IAIS
Bonn, Germany
jens.lehmann@cs.uni-bonn.de
ABSTRACT
Question answering (QA) over knowledge graphs has gained sig-
nificant momentum over the past five years due to the increasing
availability of large knowledge graphs and the rising importance
of question answering for user interaction. DBpedia has been
the most prominently used knowledge graph in this setting and
most approaches currently use a pipeline of processing steps con-
necting a sequence of components. In this article, we analyse and
micro evaluate the behaviour of 29 available QA components for
the DBpedia knowledge graph that were released by the research
community since 2010. As a result, we provide a perspective on
collective failure cases, suggest characteristics of QA components
that prevent them from performing better and provide future
challenges and research directions in the field.
1
INTRODUCTION
In the era of Big Knowledge, Question Answering (QA) systems
allow for responding natural language or voice-based questions
posed against various data sources, e.g. knowledge graphs, re-
lational databases or documents [6, 17]. Particularly, with the
advent of open knowledge graphs (e.g. DBpedia [1], Freebase [3]
and Wikidata [41]), question answering over structured data
gained momentum and researchers from different communities,
e.g. semantic web, information retrieval, databases and natu-
ral language processing have extensively studied this problem
over the past decade [19, 38, 43]. Thus, since 2010, more than 62
QA systems have been published, and DBpedia is the underly-
ing knowledge graph in 38 of them [38]. Those systems usually
translate natural language questions to a formal representation
of a query that extracts answers from the given knowledge graph.
The analysis of the architecture of these QA systems over DBpe-
dia shows that the QA system architectures share similar tasks on
the abstract level. These tasks include Named Entity Recognition
and Disambiguation (NER and NED), Relation Linking (RL), Class
Linking (CL), answer type identification, dependency parsing and
Query Building (QB) [10].
For instance, for the question “What is the time zone of New
York City?”, an ideal QA system over DBpedia generates a formal
© 2019 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Submitted in Proceedings of the
XYZ, March XX-YY, 2019, ISBN XXX-X-XXXXX-XXX-X on OpenProceedings.org.
Distribution of this paper is permitted under XYZ
representation of this question, that is a formal query (here ex-
pressed as SPARQL1), which retrieves answers from the DBpedia
endpoint2 (i.e. SELECT ?c {dbr:New_York_City dbo:timeZone
?c.}). During this process, a QA system performs successive
QA tasks. In the first step (i.e. NED), a QA system is expected
to recognise and link the entity present in the question to its
candidate(s) from DBpedia (i.e. mapping New York City to
dbr:New_York_City3). The next step is RL, in which QA systems
link the natural language predicate to the corresponding pred-
icate in DBpedia (i.e. mapping time zone to dbo:timeZone4).
Finally, the QB component obtains the linked resources and pred-
icates from the previous steps to formulate a SPARQL query.
Research Objective. Several independent QA components for
various QA tasks (e.g. NED and RL) have been released by the
research community. These components are earlier reused in QA
frameworks such as openQA [18], QALL-ME [12], OKBQA [16]
and Frankenstein [31] to build QA systems in collaborative com-
munity efforts rather building a system from scratch. Recent
empirical studies have revealed that albeit overall effective, the
performance of monolithic QA systems and QA components de-
pends heavily on the features of input questions [28, 33], and
not even the combination of the best performing QA systems
or individual QA components retrieves complete and correct an-
swers [6]. In order to advance the state of the art in building QA
systems and explore future research directions, it is important to
get insights into the strengths and weaknesses of the range of
existing QA components that can be reused in building QA sys-
tems. Therefore, the goal of this evaluation study is to analyse the
performance of existing reusable QA components implementing
the aforementioned QA tasks with respect to different question
features, and identify, thus, common behaviours, collective fail-
ures and directions for future QA research.
Approach. In this paper, we aim at putting main properties of
existing QA approaches over DBpedia in perspective and provide
strong evidence and conclusive insights about the parameters
that affect the performance of state-of-the-art QA approaches.
We have collected 29 QA components that implement various
QA tasks, and evaluate each component over 3,000 questions
from the LC-QuAD dataset [35]. 19 out of 29 QA components
are accompanied by peer reviewed publications, and other 10
1https://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-sparql-query/
2http://dbpedia.org/sparql
3Prefix dbr is bound to http://dbpedia.org/resource/
4Prefix dbo is bound to http://dbpedia.org/ontology/
arXiv:1809.10044v2  [cs.IR]  27 Jul 2020

Q1: When was university of edinburgh founded?
Q2: When was University Of Edinburgh founded?
DBpedia 
Spotlight
TagMe
dbr:University_of_Edinburgh
Upper/Lower 
Case
Explicit/ 
Implicit Entity
Abbrevia-
tions
Q1: Who is the current prime minister of Australia?
Q2: Who is the current Australian prime minister?
Q1: What is the time zone of New York City?
Q2: What is the time zone of NYC?
dbr:Australia
dbr:New_York_City
Q1: List all the chairmen of Vancouver 
Whitecaps FC?
Q2: Who has been a manager of english 
under twenty one football team?
dbr:Vancouver_Whitecaps_FC
dbr:England_national_under-21_football_team
DBpedia 
Spotlight
TagMe
Number of Words in Entities
Figure 1: Performance of Top-2 NED Components on Specific Questions. TagMe and DBpedia Spotlight are the top-2 NED
components in average on the LC-QuAD dataset (as shown in Table 1). However, their behaviour varies with regard to ques-
tion features, for which entities in lowercase vs. uppercase, including abbreviations, having implicit vs. explicit mappings
and with varying number of words have to be mapped to the DBpedia knowledge graph entities.
components are openly available to be reused for building QA
systems. These components are evaluated using the questions
range from simple to complex and vary in the number of entities
and relations as well as expressiveness. Overall, 59 variables or
question features are observed during the evaluation of these
questions in the 29 QA components. The outcome of this eval-
uation uncovers characteristics of the studied QA components
that allow for the explanation of their diverse behaviour. First,
there are certain questions that none of the components or their
combinations are able to answer, e.g. all NED components fail to
answer some questions with different capitalisation. Second, we
also have observed that best performing QA components for a
particular QA task are not the best for all the question features.
For example, TagMe [11] is the overall best component evaluated
by Singh et al. [33] for the NED task, but it is not the best com-
ponent for all the question features reported in this paper.
Contributions. Our work contributes with four folds: First, re-
sults and analysis from a micro evaluation of 29 QA components
based on 59 question features using over 3,000 questions per
component are presented. Second, we provide a perspective on
collective failure cases of state-of-the-art QA components and
pitfalls of these components. Third, we collect insights suggest-
ing the characteristics of the QA components that prevent them
from correctly and completely performing their corresponding
QA task. Finally, challenges and research directions required to
be addressed in order to advance the state of the art are discussed.
The remainder of the paper is structured as follows. We illustrate
the diverse behaviour exhibited by existing QA components in
Section 2. Then, Section 3 discusses related work and analyses
drawbacks of existing QA benchmarkings and evaluations. In
Section 4, the experimental configuration is detailed, and the
results of the empirical evaluation are reported in Section 5. We
analyse the collective failures of QA components in Section 6. In
Section 7, we discuss and provide insights about the observed
results, and Section 8 concludes with an outlook on future work.
2
MOTIVATING EXAMPLES
One of the major tasks in a QA system is Named Entity Dis-
ambiguation (NED). Although there is a high number of im-
plementations for the NED task [11, 14, 20], none of the im-
plementations consistently performs best on a variety of input
questions. Various aspects of the input questions, e.g. length or
complexity, might influence the performance of NED compo-
nents. Our motivating example demonstrates the dependency
of the performance of two well-known NED implementations
for various expressions of natural language input questions (cf.
Figure 1). For example, with respect to the question “When was
Edinburgh University founded?”, an ideal NED component tar-
geting DBpedia5 [1] as underlying knowledge graph will identify
the segment Edinburgh University as a named entity and af-
terwards link it to suitable candidate(s) in the knowledge graph,
e.g. dbr:University_of_Edinburgh. TagMe6 [11] and DBpedia
Spotlight7 [20] are NED components evaluated in [33] as the
top 2 (out of 18) components, assessed using the LC-QuAD [35]
dataset. The precision, recall and F-score for these components
are reported in Table 1. In the following paragraphs, we show
the dependency of their performance on the input question.
Table 1: Top-2 NED Components on DBpedia. The perfor-
mance of TagMe and DBpedia Spotlight is reported based
on the LC-QuAD dataset. They are the best performing
components across 3,253 questions; however, the perfor-
mance of these NED components varies depending on the
question features (cf. Figure 1).
QA Component
QA Task
Precision
Recall
F-score
TagMe
NED
0.69
0.66
0.67
DBpedia Spotlight
NED
0.58
0.59
0.59
Impact of Uppercase/Lowercase Entities. For the question
“When was Edinburgh University founded?”, TagMe and DBpedia
Spotlight are able to successfully recognise and disambiguate the
entity dbr:University_of_Edinburgh. If the given question is
rephrased to “When was university of edinburgh founded?”, in
which the entity mention is written in lowercase letters, TagMe
continues to identify and disambiguate the correct entity whereas
5https://wiki.dbpedia.org/
6https://services.d4science.org/web/tagme/demo
7https://www.dbpedia-spotlight.org/demo/

DBpedia Spotlight fails to do so. However, if the question is fur-
ther rephrased to “When was University Of Edinburgh founded?”,
in which the entity segment appears in uppercase letters, both
NED components successfully disambiguate the entity.
Impact of Implicit/Explicit Entities. Let us consider another
question, namely, “Who is the current prime minister of Aus-
tralia?”. In this question, the correct DBpedia mention for the
named entity Australia is dbr:Australia. TagMe and DBpedia
Spotlight can correctly disambiguate this entity. However, if the
question is rephrased to “Who is the current Australian prime
minister?”, both components fail to link the entity Australian
to dbr:Australia. This is due to the fact that the entity is no
longer an exact match of its DBpedia label dbr:Australia (i.e.
vocabulary mismatch problem [29]), and therefore, these compo-
nents need to rewrite or reformulate the input question.
Impact of Abbreviations in Entities. The abbreviations pre-
sented in the question have an impact on the performance of
the NED components. For the question “What is the time zone
of New York City?”, both TagMe and DBpedia Spotlight can dis-
ambiguate the entity New York City to dbr:New_York_City.
However, when this question is rephrased as “What is the time
zone of NYC?”, TagMe succeeds while DBpedia Spotlight fails.
Impact of Number of Words in Entities. For the fourth ques-
tion feature, regarding the question “List all the chairmen of
Vancouver Whitecaps FC?”, the segment Vancouver Whitecaps
FC is expected to be linked to dbr:Vancouver_Whitecaps_FC.
Although the overall performance of DBpedia Spotlight is lower
than TagMe, it succeeds in linking the entity while TagMe fails
to recognise and disambiguate Vancouver Whitecaps FC to its
target entity. In this question, the entity Vancouver Whitecaps
FC has three words. We observe that if the number of words in
the entity increases further, then DBpedia Spotlight also fails to
identify entities. For instance, for the question “Who has been a
manager of english under twenty one football team?”, both com-
ponents fail to disambiguate the entity english under twenty
one football team (6 words) to its target DBpedia entity.
These observations lead us to assume that certain characteristics
of input questions such as length, variety of expressions and
number of words in entities impact the performance of QA com-
ponents. In other words, a fine-grained analysis of performance
indicates that the overall performance of a component is not
representative when expressed as an average performance value
on all the questions of a dataset because we observe a correlation
between the input question characteristics and the success rate.
3
RELATED WORK
QA Systems and Evaluation. Question answering systems for
factoid questions over different publicly available Knowledge
Graphs (KGs) have been evaluated using various datasets/bench-
marks. SimpleQuestion [4] and WebQuestions [2] are popular
datasets for evaluating systems that use Freebase as underlying
KG. Most of the state-of-the-art QA systems over Freebase have
been evaluated using the SimpleQuestions and WebQuestions
dataset [2, 7, 42]. For DBpedia, Question Answering over Linked
Data (QALD) benchmark series provides widely used datasets
for evaluating QA systems [36]. The number of questions in
the QALD datasets ranges from 50 to 350 across its different
editions. Therefore, state-of-the-art QA systems over DBpedia
have been evaluated mostly on limited number of questions (50–
100) [6, 38, 43]. LC-QuAD [35] is another recently released dataset
that contains 5,000 questions for DBpedia and has been used for
evaluating question answering systems [9] as well.
Although the aforementioned benchmarks have been exten-
sively used to evaluate QA systems as well as QA related compo-
nents, no focus has been set on analysing the results with respect
to the different types of questions included in these benchmarks.
Therefore, across datasets and KGs, QA systems and components
have reported their overall accuracy on average over all the ques-
tions present in the dataset (i.e. by performing macro evaluation),
which does not provide many insights about the weaknesses
and strengths of a particular QA component and system when
considering different types of questions.
Hybrid Question Answering System. Cui et al. [6] introduced
the concept of hybrid question answering systems in 2017. The
authors combine their proposed KBQA QA system with exist-
ing monolithic QA systems to build hybrid QA systems. The
evaluation shows that this increases the overall accuracy of the
hybrid QA system for the 99 questions from QALD-3 [5] dataset.
Singh et al. [33] extend the applicability of hybrid QA systems to
component level and combine different components per question
answering task to build QA systems. The work has been evalu-
ated using the 204 questions of QALD-5 [36] and more than 3,000
questions of the LC-QuAD [35] dataset. In these studies, the per-
formance of hybrid QA systems and components has increased,
however, the characteristics of the unanswered questions have
not been further analysed. It is also not clear for which types of
questions hybrid QA systems and components find limitations.
Therefore, in order to build hybrid QA systems collaboratively, it
is also important to understand the strengths and weaknesses of
different components that are used to build hybrid QA systems.
4
EVALUATION SETTINGS
In this section, we describe the evaluation settings of the ex-
periments reported in this paper. In Section 4.1, we list the QA
components considered in our experiments. Then, Section 4.2
describes the experimental setup and employed metrics for assess-
ment. Section 4.3 explains the benchmarking procedure. Finally,
Section 4.4 presents all features derived from the questions.
4.1
Components for Evaluation
The Frankenstein framework [33] was employed as the underlying
platform to run and evaluate QA components for our experiments
since compared to the state of the art (i.e. openQA [18], QALL-
ME [12] and OKBQA [16]) it includes a higher number of QA
components. Frankenstein wraps the functionality of public APIs
of these components and integrates them in its core QA pipeline
as microservices. Therefore, it does not have any impact on the
functionality of these components. However, most of the QA
components when reused in QA frameworks target high preci-
sion rather than high recall per question. For instance, in the case
of TagMe8 and for the given question “Who is the wife of Barack
Obama?” three entities with different confidence scores are re-
turned (Barack
Obama, First_Lady_of_the_United_States
and World_Health_Organization). Frankenstein picks entities
with confidence score more than 0.50 which leads to the selection
of only one entity i.e. Barack Obama (correct in case of this ques-
tion to formulate SPARQL query), thus maximising the precision.
Frankenstein currently integrates 29 QA components including
11 NER, 10 NED, five RL and two QB components that have
8https://services.d4science.org/web/tagme/demo

been used to build QA systems9. Except for 11 NER, rest of the
NED components implicitly perform the NER task and provide
directly the disambiguated URLs which are required to formulate
the SPARQL query for an input question. Therefore, we focus
on the NED task excluding the independent evaluation of NER
components. However, all 11 NER components are used jointly
with the AGDISTIS [37] disambiguation component to evaluate
how well these NER components recognise entities that can act
as input for a disambiguation component such as AGDISTIS.
Besides the most common QA tasks such as NED, RL and QB, in
specific questions, it is necessary to map to the ontology classes10
present in the question. For the exemplary question “Which
comic characters are painted by Bill Finger?”, its intermediate rep-
resentation using DBpedia (“Which dbo:ComicsCharacter are
dbo:creator by dbr:Bill_Finger?”) requires recognising and
linking to the expected DBpedia class dbo:ComicsCharacter as
one of the inputs for constructing the corresponding SPARQL
query. Frankenstein includes two Class Linking (CL) components.
To the best of our knowledge, there are no other independent
components (for DBpedia) except the 29 components integrated
in Frankenstein for NED (20), RL (5), QB (2) and CL (2)11.
4.2
Evaluation Setup
We executed our experiments on ten virtual servers, each with
eight cores, 32 GB RAM running on the Ubuntu 16.04.3 oper-
ating system. We have reused the open source implementation
of Frankenstein12 for executing the different QA components
and Stardog v4.1.313 as RDF (Resource Description Framework)14
datastore to store all data generated in the experiments.
Knowledge Graph. DBpedia15 [1] was our underlying back-
ground knowledge graph. It has 5.6 million entities and 111 mil-
lion (subject,predicate,object) triples. It requires 14.2 GB storage.
Test Data. QALD16 and LC-QuAD [35] are two datasets of factoid
questions available to benchmark QA systems and components
over DBpedia. The total number of questions in the QALD series
is relatively low (350 questions at most in the 5th edition) and
the questions do not have much diversity. Compared to QALD,
the newly released LC-QuAD has 5,000 questions, the highest
number of benchmarking questions available for DBpedia [35].
The fully annotated LC-QuAD dataset (with entity, relation and
class labels) has over 5,000 entities and more than 615 predicates
covered in its questions. The questions are also diverse in expres-
siveness, as 20% of questions are simple (questions with only one
entity and one relation) and 80% are complex questions. However,
only 3,253 questions from this benchmark return answers from
the latest DBpedia version17 because the dataset was created
using a previous DBpedia version 16-04. Since all components
integrated in Frankenstein use the latest version of DBpedia
for their functionalities, we have considered only this subset of
LC-QuAD. These 3,253 questions were evaluated against the 29
Frankenstein components independently, resulting into 94,337 to-
tal questions executed using the Frankenstein framework. To the
9Full list of components: https://github.com/WDAqua/Frankenstein/blob/
master/Component%20List.csv
10https://www.w3.org/2002/07/owl#Class
11Based on the research published till 31/07/2018
12https://github.com/WDAqua/Frankenstein
13https://www.stardog.com/
14https://www.w3.org/RDF/
15DBpedia version 2016-10
16https://qald.sebastianwalter.org/
17http://dbpedia.org/sparql (version 2016-10)
best of our knowledge, this is the first study over DBpedia with
a high number of questions and components. Frankenstein plat-
form generates a KG of results using RDF (Resource Description
Framework)18 format [31] for further analysis. The execution of
all questions over all available components generates approxi-
mately 4.9GB RDF data. The experimental data, the questions,
source code for experiments and detailed results can be found in
our open source repository for reusability and reproducibility19.
Metrics: The following evaluation metrics have been employed:
i) Micro Precision (MP): For a given component, the ratio of
correct answers vs. total number of answers retrieved for a partic-
ular question. ii) Precision: The average of the Micro Precision
over all questions by a component. iii) Micro Recall (MR):
The number of correct answers retrieved by a component vs.
gold standard answers for the given question. iv) Recall (R):
The average of Micro Recall over all questions for a given com-
ponent. v) Micro F-score (MF): Harmonic mean of MP and
MR for each question. vi) F-score: Harmonic mean of P and R
for each component. vii) Processed Question: Question for
which a component has non zero F-score. viii) Unprocessed
Question: Question for which a component has zero Micro F-
score. ix) Baseline Value: The highest F-score value for a partic-
ular question feature. x) Baseline Component: The component
with the highest F-score value for a particular question feature.
xi) State-of-the-art F-score: The highest F-score value per
task on average over all questions.
4.3
Component Benchmarking
In a particular QA task, the performance of each component is
measured initially by calculating the Micro F-score per question,
and then computing the Macro F-score representing the overall
performance. For instance, consider the question “Which comic
characters are painted by Bill Finger?” from the LC-QuAD dataset.
The corresponding SPARQL query for this question is:
SELECT DISTINCT ?uri WHERE
{?uri <http://dbpedia.org/ontology/creator>
<http://dbpedia.org/resource/Bill_Finger> . ?uri
<https://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#type>
<http://dbpedia.org/ontology/ComicsCharacter>}
In order to benchmark the NED components, the output URIs of
the disambiguated entities produced by each component must be
compared against the correct DBpedia entity (dbr:Bill Finger
in this case). Afterwards, for each component Micro Precision, Mi-
cro Recall and Micro F-score values are calculated. A similar pro-
cedure has been followed for the RL and CL components, whose
outputs are compared to the correct URIs (i.e. dbo:creator for
the RL and dbo:ComicsCharacter for the CL task). For each
of the QB components, given a correct set of URIs as input,
the generated SPARQL query is compared to the benchmark
SPARQL query for the given question by comparing the answers
the SPARQL queries retrieve from DBpedia. A similar component
benchmarking procedure has been followed in [23, 32].
4.4
Question Features
Question classification based on features (e.g. question length,
POS tags, head words etc.) has been a continuous field of research
after the first edition of TREC challenge [40] for open domain QA.
However these features are explicitly used for answer type clas-
sification [15] and not for benchmarking/evaluating QA systems.
18https://www.w3.org/RDF/
19HiddenforBlindReview

0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
e=1
e=1, caps
e=1, no caps
e=1, explicit
e=1, implicit
e=1, special char
e=1, no special char
e=1, words=1 or 1.5
e=1, words=2 or 2.5
e=1, words=3 or 3.5
e=1, words=4 or 4.5
e=1, words=5 or more
e=2
e=2, no caps
e=2, one in caps
e=2, all in caps
e=2, explicit
e=2, one explicit
e=2, implicit
e=2, no special char
e=2, one with special char
e=2, special char
e=2, words=1 or 1.5
e=2, words=2 or 2.5
e=2, words=3 or 3.5
e=2, words=4 or 4.5
rel=1
rel=2
rel=1, explicit
rel=1, implicit
rel=1, not hidden
rel=1, hidden
rel=1, wc=1
rel=1, wc>=2
rel=2, 0 hidden
rel=2, 1 or 2 hidden
rel=2, 0 explicit
rel=2, 1 explicit
rel=2, 2 explicit
rel=2, av. wc=1
rel=2, av. wc=1.5
rel=2, av. wc=2
implicit class
explicit class
wc=0 or 1
wc=2
wc=3
triple size=2
triple size=3
triple size=4
resources=1
resources=2
relations=1
relations=2
classes=0
classes=1
answer type=list
answer type=count
answer type=boolean
# of Questions
CL NED QB RL
Figure 2: Distribution of Questions per Question Feature. For evaluating components fulfilling different QA tasks, various
question features have been considered. 59 features have been extracted in total – 26 for NED, 16 for RL, 5 for CL and 12
for QB. Some features are considered in several questions, and some questions are characterised by several features.
In QA over KGs, NED, RL, CL and QB are concerned with the
formation of final SPARQL queries and not with finding the right
source of the answer. Therefore, for analysing the performance
of QA components, and in order to provide a more fine-grained
evaluation, we categorise questions per feature and evaluate the
single QA components for these question features (cf. Figure 2
for the distribution of questions per question feature). All these
question features have been automatically extracted.
4.4.1
Question Features for NED Task. For the NED task, we
consider the following features of input questions.
Number of Entities. For a given question, we consider the num-
ber of entities included in the question. For example, in the ques-
tion “Which comic characters are painted by Bill Finger?”, there
is one entity (Bill Finger), and therefore this question is clas-
sified as “question with entity=1”.
Number of Words in Entities. The number of words of an en-
tity is the next feature. For the exemplary question “Which comic
characters are painted by Bill Finger?”, the number of words in
the entity label (i.e. Bill Finger) is two; hence, this question is
annotated with the feature “entity=1, number of words in enti-
ties=2”. For questions having several entities, the average number
of words in all labels of entities is considered.
Implicit/Explicit Entities. The entity of a question is explicit
if there is an exact match between the segment and the DB-
pedia resource URI label (meaning there is no vocabulary mis-
match). For the exemplary question, the segment Bill Finger
matches the label of dbr:Bill_Finger, while for the question
“What religions do politicians in the Korean Minjoo Party fol-
low?”, the segment Korean Minjoo Party and the desire re-
source dbr:Minjoo_Party_of_Korea have a slight vocabulary
mismatch. We consider the explicit/implicit entities as another
feature. Please note that questions with two entities might have
three different statuses 1) both entities are explicit, 2) at least one
of them is explicit and 3) both are implicit.
Case Sensitivity of Entities. The use of uppercase or lowercase
for entities is another question feature. If all words in the segment
associated to an entity of a given question are uppercase, then we
annotate the question as “uppercase”, otherwise as “lowercase”.
For questions containing two entities, three different annotations
for this feature are: 1) both entities are in uppercase, 2) at least
one entity is in uppercase and 3) both entities are in lowercase.
Special Characters in Entities. If the entity segment contains
ASCII punctuation, symbols or numbers, the question is anno-
tated as a question with special character(s). For example, the
question “What is the route junction of Rhode Island Route 15?”
contains a number in the entity segment Rhode Island Route
15, therefore it is considered as a question with special characters.
For questions with two entities, three annotations are possible:
1) both entities have special characters, 2) at least one has special
character and 3) none has special characters.
4.4.2
Question Features for RL Task. The features for the RL
task are similar to the NED task except that we excluded (i) case
sensitivity and (ii) inclusion of special characters, because there
were no relations with such features in the LC-QuAD questions.
Number of Relations. The number of relations in a given ques-
tion is the first question feature.
Number of Words in Relation. The number of words in the
relation segment is the next feature. For questions with two rela-
tions or more, this feature is computed as the average number of
words in the relation segments.
Explicit/Implicit Relation. Similar to the NED task, this fea-
ture refers to whether the relation mention is explicit or implicit.
In the exemplary question “Which comic characters are painted
by Bill Finger?”, the relation segment painted by does not ex-
plicitly match to the DBpedia relation dbo:creator, therefore,
this question is considered as implicit relation question.
Hidden Relation. Consider the question “Which companies
have launched a rocket from Cape Canaveral Air Force sta-
tion?” which contains two relations (i.e. dbo:launchSite and
dbo:manufacturer). For dbo:launchSite, there is a mention
in the question (launched), while, there is no mention for the
relation dbo:manufacturer. We characterise questions without

a natural language segment as “questions with hidden relations”.
For questions with two relations, possible annotations are: 1) one
relation is hidden and 2) at least one is hidden.
4.4.3
Question Features for CL Task. All LC-QuAD questions
contain at most one class. For the questions with a single class,
we considered the following features: 1) explicit/implicit mention
of class and 2) number of words in the class segment.
4.4.4
Question Features for QB Task. For the evaluation of
the QB components, we take into consideration the following
features:
Number of Triple Patterns. This feature refers to the number
of basic triple patterns in the SPARQL query corresponding to
the question.
Number of Relations. It means the number of relations in the
SPARQL query.
Number of Entities. It relates to the number of entities in the
SPARQL query.
Number of Classes. This feature refers to the number of classes
in the SPARQL query.
Answer Type. There are three types of possible types: list, num-
ber or boolean. For instance, the question “Which comic charac-
ters are painted by Bill Finger” has a list as expected answer.
5
EVALUATION RESULTS
We pursue the following research questions in our experiments.
RQ1) What is the performance of QA components depending
on the question features? RQ2) Which QA components exhibit
similar behaviour across the different questions and question
features? RQ3) What is the impact of combining QA components
in the overall performance? This section is followed by the results
of the empirical experiments conducted to address our research
questions. Section 5.1 represents the experiments with respect to
RQ1. In Section 5.2 and Section 5.3 we discuss our observations
and answers reached for RQ2 and RQ3 respectively.
5.1
Evaluating QA Components
In this experiment, we evaluate 29 components for various QA
tasks based on the question features described in Section 4.4. We
then report the results for each QA task independently.
5.1.1
Performance of NED Components. The heatmap in Fig-
ure 3 shows the performance (i.e. F-score) for 20 NED components
across questions with different features. For example, TagMe [11]
which in previous literature reported F-score value 0.67 [33], has
fluctuating F-scores here.
Performance varies across question features. The baseline
F-score value varies across different question features. For exam-
ple, for the question feature “number of entities=1, and contains
special character” (e.g. question “What is the route junction of
Rhode Island Route 15?” where the entity label Rhode Island
Route 15 contains special characters), TagMe [11] is the baseline
component with F-score value of 0.72. However, for questions
such as “What religions do politicians in the Korean Minjoo Party
follow?”, in which the number of entities is one and the entity
is implicit (the segment Korean Minjoo Party is mapped to
dbr:Minjoo_Party_of_Korea), AmbiverseNED 2.020 [14] is the
baseline component, but with lower baseline value – 0.41.
Impact of Number of Entities. When the number of entities
in the question is two (e=2), 16 NED components illustrated an
20https://www.ambiverse.com/
e=1
e=1, caps
e=1, no caps
e=1, explicit
e=1, implicit
e=1, special char
e=1, no special char
e=1, words=1 or 1.5
e=1, words=2 or 2.5
e=1, words=3 or 3.5
e=1, words=4 or 4.5
e=1, words=5 or more
e=2
e=2, no caps
e=2, one in caps
e=2, all in caps
e=2, explicit
e=2, one explicit
e=2, implicit
e=2, no special char
e=2, one with special char
e=2, special char
e=2, words=1 or 1.5
e=2, words=2 or 2.5
e=2, words=3 or 3.5
e=2, words=4 or 4.5
AylienNER + AGDISTIS
TagMe NED
DBpedia NER + AGDISTIS
Ambiverse NED
MeaningCloud NER + AGDISTIS
DBpedia NED
MeaningCloud NED
Textrazor NER + AGDISTIS
Dandelion NER + AGDISTIS
Dandelion NED
Ontotext NED
Babelfy NER + AGDISTIS
Ambiverse NER + AGDISTIS
Tagme NER + AGDISTIS
EntityClassifier NER + AGDISTIS
Babelfy NED
Stanford NER + AGDISTIS
Ontotext NER + AGDISTIS
AmbiverseNED 2.0
AmbiverseNER 2.0 + AGDISTIS
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
Figure 3: Comparison of F-scores per Question Feature
for QA Components Performing the NED Task. Darker
colour indicates higher F-score. While TagMe and Am-
biverseNED 2.0 demonstrate high performance, few com-
ponents such as Babelfy, Ambiverse 1.0 and Meaning-
Cloud deliver poor results for the LC-QuAD questions.
These results suggest that the behaviour of best perform-
ing NED components is impacted by the question features.
increase in the F-score values compared to questions with one
entity. For such questions, AmbiverseNED 2.0 is the baseline
component with F-score 0.79. When the number of entities is
one, all components have F-scores less than 0.67 which is the
state-of-the-art F-score for the NED task. In this case, TagMe sets
the baseline F-score to 0.65.
Impact of Number of Words in Entities. For questions which
contain one entity, if the number of words ("wc" in heatmap)
in the entity increases from one to two, 19 out of the 20 NED
components demonstrate an increase in the F-score values. How-
ever, when the number of words in the entity further increases
to three, 16 components demonstrate decrease in F-scores. For
four or more words in the entity, only OntotextNED21 shows
no variation in the F-score compared to questions with entities
containing three words; for all other components, F-score is fur-
ther decreased. In questions containing two entities, the highest
F-score value remains above 0.75 independently of the average
number of words in the entities.
Impact of Special Characters in Entities. Except for TagMe
and DandelionNED22, for all other NED components we observed
a decrease in the F-score values in the case that the spotted enti-
ties contain special characters.
Impact of Character Cases in Entities. The character cases
significantly impact the performance of the NED components.
The majority of QA components demonstrate a steep decrease in
the F-score values when the entities appear in lowercase, inde-
pendent of the number of entities in the question. For example, in
21https://ontotext.com/technology-solutions/semantic-tagging/
22https://dandelion.eu/docs/api/datatxt/nex/getting-started/

DBpedia Spotlight NED [20] (abbreviated as DBpedia NED in Fig-
ure 3) the F-score decreases from 0.64 to 0.36 when the entity char-
acter case is switched to lowercase. Similar behaviour is observed
in other components as well such as AylienNER+AGDISTIS23
[37] and StanfordNER+AGDISTIS [13, 37], for which the F-score
values sharply drop from 0.50 and 0.55 to 0.15 and 0.09 respec-
tively.
Impact of Implicit/Explicit Entities. The existence of implicit
entities significantly impacts the performance of all NED com-
ponents. For example, for questions with one explicit entity, the
baseline F-score value is 0.78 (TagMe), whereas for implicit enti-
ties, the baseline is 0.41 (AmbiverseNED 2.0) and for the other 19
NED components is less than 0.30.
5.1.2
Performance of RL Components. The heatmap in Fig-
ure 4 shows the performance (i.e. F-score) for five RL components
across questions with different features. The state-of-the-art F-
score value for the RL task on LC-QuAD dataset is 0.23, achieved
by the RNLIWOD component [33]. Similar to the results reported
for the NED task, there is no overall baseline component and
value for all question features, as illustrated in Figure 4. This
experiment led us to the following observations:
Impact of Number of Relations. When the number of rela-
tions (rel=1 or 2 in Figure 4) in the question is elevated to two,
the baseline F-score drops from 0.28 (ReMatch [23]) to 0.24 (RN-
LIWOD24 component). Other components also demonstrate a
decrease in performance in this case.
Impact of Number of Words in Relations. For questions con-
taining one or two relations, an increase in the number of words
in the relation label has increased the overall performance of the
components.
Impact of Explicit/Implicit Relations. For questions contain-
ing one relation, for which the label is explicit, ReMatch [23]
provides the baseline F-score 0.47. However, when the relation is
implicit, the baseline F-score value drops to 0.16 (for RNLIWOD).
RelMatch [16] reports the lowest F-score for implicit relations
with F-score 0.06. In questions containing two relations, the num-
ber of implicit relations negatively impacts the performance. For
instance, for questions being similar to “How many currencies
are in use in places where people speak French?” which has two
implicit relations (i.e. currencies and speak) that should be
rel=1
rel=2
rel=1, explicit
rel=1, implicit
rel=1, not hidden
rel=1, hidden
rel=1, wc=1
rel=1, wc>=2
rel=2, 0 hidden
rel=2, 1 or 2 hidden
rel=2, 0 explicit
rel=2, 1 explicit
rel=2, 2 explicit
rel=2, av. wc=1
rel=2, av. wc=1.5
rel=2, av. wc=2
RNLIWOD
RelMatch
AnnotationofSpotProperty
RelationMatcher
ReMatch
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
Figure 4: Comparison of F-scores per Question Feature for
QA Components Performing the RL Task. Darker colour
indicates higher F-score. We observe that ReMatch and
RNLIWOD deliver the best F-scores but reach zero F-score
for some question features. These results provide evi-
dence that the performance of RL components is affected
by most of the question features.
23http://docs.aylien.com/docs/introduction (AylienNER)
24The component is similar to the Relation Linker of https://github.com/
dice-group/NLIWOD
mapped to dbo:currency and officialLanguage respectively,
the baseline F-score value is 0.17 (for RNLIWOD).
Impact of Hidden Relations. For questions containing a natu-
ral language label for the relation, ReMatch is the baseline with
F-score 0.28. However, for the exemplary question “How many
shows does HBO have?” There is no corresponding segment in
the annotated dataset to be mapped to dbo:company. For all ques-
tions with one hidden relation, the baseline F-score is drops to
0.15. A similar drop in performance is observed in questions with
two relations as well.
implicit class
explicit class
wc=0 or 1
wc=2
wc=3
OKBQA DM CLS
CLSNLIWOD
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
Figure 5: Comparison of F-scores per Question Feature for
QA Components Performing the CL Task. Higher F-score
is indicated with dark colour. OKBQA DM Class Linker
performs better than CLSNLIWOD. However, all question
features impact the performance of both components.
5.1.3
Performance of CL Components. The heatmap in Fig-
ure 5 shows the fine-grained results of our experiment for the
CL task. For this, we took into account two state-of-the-art com-
ponents integrated in Frankenstein. We concluded that the fol-
lowing question features impact their overall performance:
Impact of Explicit/Implicit Class. Consider the question “What
university campuses are situated in Indiana?” for which the class
label university is expected to be mapped to dbo:University
through an exact match. In such cases, OKBQA DM CLS25 has
the baseline F-score 0.72 compared to the state-of-the-art F-score
0.52 for the CL task [33]. However, when class mentions are im-
plicit, the baseline F-score drops to 0.45, but OKBQA DM CLS is
still the best component.
Impact of Number of Words in Class. The increasing number
of words in the class label has a positive impact on the perfor-
mance of the components. OKBQA DM CLS remains the baseline
for all question features. However, the baseline value increases
with the number of words in the class label. When the class label
contains one word the baseline F-score is 0.61; for two and three
words, the baseline F-score increases to 0.72 and 0.94 respectively.
5.1.4
Performance of QB Components. The two QB compo-
nents available in Frankenstein were evaluated based on different
question features. The details of performance behaviour are illus-
trated in Figure 6. The state-of-the-art F-score for the QB task is
0.48 for NLIWOD QB26. We noticed the following observations
based on the impact of the question features on the performance:
Impact of Number of Triple Patterns. With the increase in
the number of triple patterns, the performance of the QB com-
ponents is downgraded in general. For queries with two triple
patterns, SINA [30] is the baseline component with F-score value
0.80. When the number of triple patterns is three, SINA’s F-score
drops to 0.18, and NLIWOD QB is the new baseline component
with F-score 0.52. In the case of questions mapped to SPARQL
25Component is similar to the CL of http://repository.okbqa.org/components/7
26Component is based on https://github.com/dice-group/NLIWOD.

queries with four triple patterns, NLIWOD QB remains the base-
line with F-score 0.38, while the F-score for SINA drops to 0.
Impact of Number of Resources. The increase in the number
of resources (i.e. entities) in the question also inversely affects the
performance of the QB components. In case of single resources,
NLIWOD QB has F-score 0.54, while this value drops to 0.38
when the number of resources in the question increases to two.
The F-score for SINA drops to 0 for questions with two resources.
Impact of Number of Relations. NLIWOD QB and SINA have
shown dissimilar behaviour in the performance when the number
of relations in the question increases. For an increase in the num-
ber of relations from one to two, the F-score value for NLIWOD
QB has been elevated from 0.48 to 0.50, whereas the F-score value
for SINA has dropped from 0.40 to 0.04.
Impact of Number of Classes. When there is no class in the
question, NLIWOD QB is the baseline component (F-score is 0.46).
For questions with one class, the baseline F-score value increases
to 0.54 for NLIWOD QB which outperforms SINA in both cases.
Impact of Answer Type. NLIWOD QB remains the best com-
ponent for any answer type (i.e. list, boolean and number.) For
instance, the question “Which comic characters painted by Bill
Finger?” expects a list of DBpedia resources as an answer. For
such questions, NLIWOD QB is the baseline component with
F-score 0.56. When the expected answer type is boolean, the
baseline F-score value drops to 0.46, and it further drops to 0.14
for questions expecting a number as an answer. SINA cannot
answer any questions with answer types number or boolean.
5.2
Clustering of QA Components
In this experiment, we pursue the second research question, that
is where or when QA components exhibit similar behaviour. To
study the similarity of QA components behaviour we applied
clustering techniques on the evaluation results of these compo-
nents based on the question features as well as overall question
results. In particular, we have applied k-means clustering27 To
cluster QA components based on (a) performance with respect to
question features (macro level) and (b) performance with respect
to processed LC-QuAD questions (micro level). Figure 7a and
Figure 7b visualise our clustering results. Since the number of
components per QA task under evaluation differs, we were able
to study this research question only for the task for which there is
an adequate number of components, i.e. the NED task. In the first
triple size=2
triple size=3
triple size=4
resources=1
resources=2
relations=1
relations=2
classes=0
classes=1
answer type=list
answer type=count
answer type=boolean
NLIWOD QB
SINA
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
Figure 6: Comparison of F-scores per Question Feature for
QA Components Performing the QB Task. Higher F-score
is indicated with dark colour. SINA performs better than
NLIWOD Query Builder only when the two triples are in-
cluded in the input question. For most of the question fea-
tures F-scores remain lower than 0.6.
27The optimal k was calculated using the elbow and silhouette method [27].
clustering (cf. Figure 7a), the red cluster (right) represents com-
ponents with higher performance, while the black (middle) and
green (left) clusters group medium and low accuracy components
respectively. The “distance” between the single components can
also be observed by comparing the colour scales in Figure 3. In
the second clustering (cf. Figure 7b), components that appear
in the same cluster (or are “closer” in the cluster) are expected
to provide correct answers to similar subsets of the LC-QuAD
questions. By comparing these two figures, we observe that NED
components that are similar with respect to their performance
over different question features are not necessarily able to answer
the same questions as well (although a tendency is in general
observed). For instance, TagMe NED and Babelfy NED [22] which
appear close in the clustering of Figure 7b demonstrate different
performance in Figure 7a. In addition, in order to find out which
question features are more significant for clustering NED compo-
nents, we have performed Principal Component Analysis (PCA).
From this, we concluded that “e=2, explicit”, “e=2, words=2 or 2.5”
and “e=2, no special characters” constitute the most important
features. This means, in principle, that the NED components un-
der study demonstrate very different F-scores for these features.
This type of analysis allows us to group components with respect
to the type of questions they are able to address successfully.
5.3
Hybrid Composition of QA Components
In this section, we address the third research question, in particu-
lar, we investigate what is the impact of combining components
in the total performance. The idea of integrating QA systems
was first introduced by Cui et al. [6], who combined two QA sys-
tems and observed a slight increase in the number of answered
questions for 99 questions of the QALD-3 dataset. First, the in-
put question is sent to the KBQA QA system (introduced by the
authors) and if KBQA cannot answer the question this question
is passed to other monolithic QA systems; the combination is
known as hybrid QA system. In this experiment, we extend the
concept of hybrid QA systems by integrating at the component
level in order to study the impact of combining QA components
on the total number of processed questions. We also use a bigger
set of questions (3,253) from LC-QuAD compared to 99 questions
from QALD used in [6]. For our experiment, we send a question to
the component with highest F-score on LC-QuAD (average on all
3,253 questions), and if the question is not answered, we forward
the question to the component with the next highest F-score.
We continue this process for all QA tasks until the component
with the lowest F-score. We calculate the accumulative number
of processed questions for top-1, top-2, etc. components which
are taken into account. Figure 8 illustrates the impact of com-
bining QA components on the number of processed questions
for all tasks. It can be observed that for the RL, QB and CL tasks
this number continuously increases when more components are
combined. However, for the NED task (where a bigger number
of components is considered), the number of answered questions
initially increases but it slowly saturates when more than four
components are considered. This shows that combining several
QA components performing the same task in a hybrid QA system
does not necessarily improve the overall performance (not all the
components are complementary). In addition, this observation
provides an indication that most of the QA components fail for
the same questions, i.e. there are several questions that cannot
be addressed by any of the available components.

G
G
G
G
G
G
AylienNER + AGDISTIS
TagMe NED
DBpedia NER + AGDISTIS
Ambiverse NED
MeaningCloud NER + AGDISTIS
DBpedia NED
MeaningCloud NED
Textrazor NER + AGDISTIS
Dandelion NER + AGDISTIS
Dandelion NED
Ontotext NED
Babelfy NER + AGDISTIS
Ambiverse NER + AGDISTIS
Tagme NER + AGDISTIS
EntityClassifier NER + AGDISTIS
Babelfy NED
Stanford NER + AGDISTIS
Ontotext NER + AGDISTIS AmbiverseNED 2.0
AmbiverseNER 2.0 + AGDISTIS
−2
−1
0
1
2
−5
0
5
Dim1 (85.9%)
Dim2 (8%)
cluster
GGa
a
a
1
2
3
(a) Clustering based on question features (macro level)
G
G
G
G
G
G
G
G
G
G
G
G
G
G
G
AylienNER + AGDISTIS
TagMe NED
DBpedia NER + AGDISTIS
Ambiverse NED
MeaningCloud NER + AGDISTIS
DBpedia NED
MeaningCloud NED
Textrazor NER + AGDISTIS
Dandelion NER + AGDISTIS
Dandelion NED
Ontotext NED
Babelfy NER + AGDISTIS
Ambiverse NER + AGDISTIS
Tagme NER + AGDISTIS
EntityClassifier NER + AGDISTIS
Babelfy NED
Stanford NER + AGDISTIS
Ontotext NER + AGDISTIS
AmbiverseNED 2.0
AmbiverseNER 2.0 + AGDISTIS
−20
−10
0
10
20
30
−25
0
25
50
Dim1 (31.6%)
Dim2 (12.8%)
cluster
GGa
a
1
2
(b) Clustering based on question results (micro level)
Figure 7: Clustering of NED Components. K-means clusters NED components at macro and micro level. In (a) the red
cluster contains the best performing components while the black and the green clusters represent NED components with
medium and low performance respectively, for questions with different features. While the components with similar
performance are clustered together in (a), in (b) we observe that some are dissimilar with regard to the questions they are
able to answer.
G
G
G
G
G
G
G
G
G
G
G
G
G
G
G
G
G
G
G
G
G
G
G
G
G
G
G
G
G
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
5
10
15
20
n Components
Processed Questions
QA Component Type G
G
G
G
CL
NED
QB
RL
Figure 8: Total Processed Questions for the Combination
of Top-n QA Components per QA Task. Combinations of
two or more QA components improve the number of pro-
cessed questions. Particularly, combinations of the top-4
NED are able to process a bit less than 3,000 questions;
however, adding more NED components does not improve
the performance significantly.
6
FAILURE ANALYSIS
There are several questions for which all components of the re-
spective task failed to process (cf. Figure 9). We have analysed
the question features for those questions per QA task in order to
understand in depth the collective failure of the components.
Unprocessed Questions for NED Components. For the NED
task, 210 questions cannot be processed by any of the 20 com-
ponents, i.e. for which the F-score for all components is 0. As
illustrated in Figure 10, 200 unprocessed questions have a single
entity and just 10 questions have two entities. Out of the 200
single entity questions, 165 contain implicit entities. Furthermore,
121 questions with single entity have entity label written in up-
percase letters and 79 with lowercase letters. While analysing
0
500
1000
1500
NED
RL
CL
QB
QA Component Type
# of Questions
Figure 9: Number of Unprocessed Questions per QA Task.
While combination of all NED and CL components are
able to process the high majority of the LC-QuAD ques-
tions, the combinations of QB and RL components fails in
half and one third of the questions, respectively.
these questions further, we have observed that out of 121 ques-
tions which have uppercase letters, 100 include implicit entities
as well. A similar observation is valid for the 79 questions having
an entity label in lowercase, out of which 64 contain an implicit
entity. Hence, the implicit nature of entities is difficult to address
by the majority of the NED components.
Unprocessed Questions for RL Components. Compared to
the NED task, more questions for RL remain unprocessed. There
are 992 questions in total for which all RL components have zero
F-score. Among these questions, 510 questions have one and 482
questions have two relations. 397 relations are implicit when the
number of relations is one. For the 482 questions with two rela-
tions, 135 questions have at least one implicit relation, whereas
for 286 questions both relations are implicit.

0
50
100
150
200
e=1
e=1, explicit
e=1, implicit
e=1, lowercase
e=1, lowercase & implicit
e=1, uppercase
e=1, uppercase & implicit
e=1, wc=1
e=1, wc=2
e=1, wc=3
e=1, wc=4
e=2
# of Questions
NED
0
100
200
300
400
500
r=1
r=1, explicit
r=1, implicit
r=2
r=2, both explicit
r=2, none explicit
r=2, one explicit
# of Questions
RL
0
25
50
75
100
125
class explcit
class implicit
CL
0
250
500
750
answerType=bool
answerType=list
answerType=num
triples=2
triples=3
triples=4
QB
Figure 10: Distribution of Unprocessed Questions per QA
Task Based on Question Feature. When the target entity,
class or relation are implicit the corresponding QA com-
ponents fail in many cases. For the QB components, gener-
ating SPARQL queries from questions with three or more
triple patterns or expecting a number as an answer is at
most challenging. This provides an evidence that few fea-
tures majorly impact the performance of the components.
Unprocessed Questions for CL Components. In total, 136
questions are not processed collectively by both CL components.
These questions have predominantly implicit classes (in 120 cases)
as can be seen in Figure 10.
Unprocessed Questions for QB Components. The number
of unprocessed questions for the two QB components is the high-
est compared to the other QA tasks i.e. 1,492 questions in total.
The number of triple patterns in the SPARQL query is one of
the major features observed in the unprocessed questions. Only
125 questions contain two triple patterns, while 591 questions
have three and 776 questions four. Besides the number of triple
patterns, it is obvious that answer type challenges the QB com-
ponents. 195 unprocessed questions have answer type boolean,
402 number and 895 question expect a list as an answer. For 895
questions with list answer type, 839 have more than two triple
patterns in the corresponding SPARQL query.
7
DISCUSSION AND FUTURE DIRECTIONS
In the following paragraphs, we summarise our observations
followed by a discussion about potential improvements in the
state-of-the-art QA components.
NED components with similar F-scores cannot always an-
swer the same questions. By exploring how “close” NED com-
ponents are with respect to their F-scores for different question
features and with regard to which questions they are able to
answer, we observed that components that have similar perfor-
mance on different question features may not be able to answer
the same questions as well.
Hybrid QA systems to some extent promotes the perfor-
mance. Our experiment in combining QA systems at component
level shows that the hybrid composition of QA components can
increase the number of total processed questions (but fails in
similar types of questions). However, specifically for NED com-
ponents, we observed that with the increase of QA components
the number of processed questions in total saturates.
Suggestions to improve NED Components. In 2014, Derczyn-
ski et al. [8] pointed out capitalisation of entity label as an issue
for NED tools (the authors analysed three tools) while analysing
a tweet corpus. However, this issue still remains unsolved, and
we identify sensitivity to character cases as major pitfall for 20
NED tools. We observe a decrease in performance for lowercase
characters for all components, specifically, for 13 components,
the performance drops more than 50%. We are aware that many
of NED components were not directly released for QA purposes
and they assume input as a formal text where the mention of
entities is typically written in capital letters. Nevertheless, in
case of QA systems, we cannot expect that a user writes ques-
tions with entities written in uppercase letters. Previously these
components relied on statistical approaches, however, with the
support of knowledge graphs, we believe this drawback is easily
fixable. Similarly, the performance in case of questions having
entities with long expressions can be enhanced by semantics and
structure provided by KGs, such as the work presented in [26].
The other limitation is recognising implicit entities. 19 out of
20 NED components received more than 50% decrease in their
performance for questions with one implicit entity. Furthermore,
there are 210 questions which are not processed by any NED com-
ponent; 85% of them have implicit entities. Since a given query
is inherently short, it might not contain sufficient contextual in-
formation. Recently, this problem was targeted in other research
communities for social media [24] and clinical documents [25],
but little work related to QA was done. Thus, we believe that
the solutions employed in other research areas can inspire QA
researchers. In addition, taking into account personalised infor-
mation can support a better, context-aware QA system.
Suggestions to improve RL Components. The two major pit-
falls of RL components is the existence of implicit and hidden
relations. This challenge in RL task is more severe compared to
the NED task because of the more profound complexity of rela-
tions (they can be expressed as a verb, adjective, adverb and noun
phrase or even hidden in prepositions). Lack of sufficient context
also adds further complexity to relations. Since compared to RL
components, existing techniques for NED are more stable, one
possible improvement is to exploit entities extracted from the
question to support relation linking (the existing RL components
do not consider entities).
Suggestions to improve CL Components. Similar to the two
previous tasks, implicit mention of classes is a challenge. We
believe that approaches considering the hierarchy of the back-
ground ontology or taxonomies from external resources such as
WordNet [21] can improve CL components further.
Insight on QB Components. As we mentioned previously,
complex questions challenge QB components. Typically, QB com-
ponents rely on two methods, the first and popular method is
template-based approaches (either using predefined templates
or inferring templates from dependency parsers). The truth is
that the more complex questions lead to more number of possi-
ble templates, therefore, obviously this influences performance
negatively. The second approach is traversal on KG which is com-
monly combined with light inference approaches. This method is
not effective once the size of the underlying KG is large because,
in case of long questions, it requires traversing a larger part of

the KG. We recommend the research community to investigate
new ways for implementing more efficient QB components.
Need of Frameworks for Micro Evaluation. So far various
benchmarking frameworks have been developed to provide anal-
ysis of strengths and weaknesses of existing open QA systems
and associated components [38, 39]. However, they do not pro-
vide micro benchmarking of the components and systems and do
not investigate the effect of question features in the related exper-
iments. We contributed in providing a micro-level evaluation for
performing such an analysis, that is, we reused two renowned QA
benchmarks for evaluating QA systems over the DBpedia KG and
adapted them accordingly in order to evaluate the participating
QA tasks separately. One of the limitations for such an analysis
is attributed to the dataset. The existing datasets do not have a
fair distribution of all types of questions and question features.
Necessity to Address Vocabulary Mismatch Problem. The
implicit entities as well as implicit relations and classes have a
negative impact on the performance of QA components. Most
issues are usually caused by vocabulary mismatch when the men-
tion of entity/relation/class differs from its association in the
background KG and schema. This challenge is very important for
schema-aware QA systems rather than schema-unaware search
systems such as information retrieval approaches because the
precise interpretation of the input query as well as the accurate
spotting of the answer is more demanding [29]. Query expansion
and rewriting are typical solutions for addressing the vocabu-
lary mismatch problem. Thus, we recommend the QA research
community to consider the development of components tackling
vocabulary mismatch when implementing QA systems.
8
CONCLUSIONS
In this paper, we performed an in-depth analysis of the perfor-
mance of several QA components over DBpedia KG. The purpose
of this analysis was to investigate three main research questions
related to (i) the performance of QA components depending on
different question features, (ii) the similarity in the behaviour
of QA components based on different parameters and (iii) the
impact of combining QA components on the overall performance
respectively. Rather than evaluating and discussing each QA com-
ponent individually, we employ an overall evaluation approach
which provides an overview and further insights in the successes
and failures of existing QA components. The necessity of this
extended study emerged from the observations we have made
on more than 60 QA systems and several other independent QA
components which have been published until now. In fact, there
is a lack in micro benchmarking of QA components addressing
different QA-related tasks, with respect to input questions with
different characteristics, which impedes the development of col-
laborative efforts to improve the state of the art. With the current
study we contribute to the research community with insightful
results over 29 QA components based on 59 question features
using a benchmark consisting of more than 3,000 questions from
LC-QuAD, an analysis of pitfalls of existing QA components
and their causes and, finally, a list of challenges and research
directions in question answering.
Although we focus on DBpedia, we believe that the results may
generalise beyond this to other large cross-domain knowledge
graphs, such as YAGO [34] and Wikidata [41]. As most of the
QA components are not tailored for DBpedia specifically28, the
QA pipelines for those graphs are similar, and the graphs share
similar structures and overlap in content. It is important to extend
this study with more QA components – also components that are
part of monolithic QA systems – and with further benchmarks
– both domain-specific and domain-independent. Furthermore,
our proposed analysis can be used to gain insights with regard
to these or similar components beyond QA research.
One of the main lessons learned from this analysis is that
none of the QA components per QA task is perfect but their
performance varies based on questions with different features.
We conclude that representing performance of a QA component
on average over all questions of a benchmarking dataset is not
representative enough for analysing the components’ strengths
and does not shed light on their concrete weaknesses. In par-
ticular, we found out that one of the main challenges for most
components is the vocabulary mismatch problem (in NED, RL
and CL task) and that in many cases, the appearance of uppercase
letters in the entities (for NED) and the expected answer type (for
QB) influence the performance of the corresponding components
negatively. Our ambition is that the results of this evaluation will
encourage the QA research community to overcome the current
drawbacks of the state of the art that prevent many of these
approaches to be employed in real world applications.
REFERENCES
[1] Sören Auer, Christian Bizer, Georgi Kobilarov, Jens Lehmann, Richard Cyga-
niak, and Zachary G. Ives. 2007. DBpedia: A Nucleus for a Web of Open Data.
In The Semantic Web, 6th International Semantic Web Conference, 2nd Asian
Semantic Web Conference, ISWC 2007 + ASWC 2007, Busan, Korea, November
11-15, 2007. Springer, 722–735. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-76298-0_52
[2] Jonathan Berant, Andrew Chou, Roy Frostig, and Percy Liang. 2013. Semantic
Parsing on Freebase from Question-Answer Pairs. In Proceedings of the 2013
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, EMNLP
2013, 18-21 October 2013, Grand Hyatt Seattle, Seattle, Washington, USA, A
meeting of SIGDAT, a Special Interest Group of the ACL. ACL, 1533–1544. http:
//aclweb.org/anthology/D/D13/D13-1160.pdf
[3] Kurt D. Bollacker, Colin Evans, Praveen Paritosh, Tim Sturge, and Jamie Taylor.
2008. Freebase: a collaboratively created graph database for structuring human
knowledge. In Proceedings of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference on
Management of Data, SIGMOD 2008, Vancouver, BC, Canada, June 10-12, 2008.
ACM, 1247–1250. https://doi.org/10.1145/1376616.1376746
[4] Antoine Bordes, Nicolas Usunier, Sumit Chopra, and Jason Weston. 2015.
Large-scale Simple Question Answering with Memory Networks.
CoRR
abs/1506.02075 (2015). arXiv:1506.02075 http://arxiv.org/abs/1506.02075
[5] Philipp Cimiano, Vanessa Lopez, Christina Unger, Elena Cabrio, Axel-
Cyrille Ngonga Ngomo, and Sebastian Walter. 2013. Multilingual question
answering over linked data (qald-3): Lab overview. In International Conference
of the Cross-Language Evaluation Forum for European Languages. Springer,
321–332.
[6] Wanyun Cui, Yanghua Xiao, Haixun Wang, Yangqiu Song, Seung-won Hwang,
and Wei Wang. 2017. KBQA: Learning Question Answering over QA Corpora
and Knowledge Bases. PVLDB 10, 5 (2017), 565–576. http://www.vldb.org/
pvldb/vol10/p565-cui.pdf
[7] Zihang Dai, Lei Li, and Wei Xu. 2016. CFO: Conditional Focused Neural
Question Answering with Large-scale Knowledge Bases. In Proceedings of the
54th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, ACL 2016,
August 7-12, 2016, Berlin, Germany, Volume 1: Long Papers. The Association
for Computer Linguistics. http://aclweb.org/anthology/P/P16/P16-1076.pdf
[8] Leon Derczynski, Diana Maynard, Giuseppe Rizzo, Marieke van Erp,
Genevieve Gorrell, Raphaël Troncy, Johann Petrak, and Kalina Bontcheva.
2015. Analysis of named entity recognition and linking for tweets. Inf. Process.
Manage. 51, 2 (2015), 32–49.
[9] Dennis Diefenbach, Andreas Both, Kamal Singh, and Pierre Maret. 2018. To-
wards a Question Answering System over the Semantic Web. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1803.00832 (2018).
[10] Dennis Diefenbach, Vanessa López, Kamal Deep Singh, and Pierre Maret.
2018. Core techniques of question answering systems over knowledge bases:
a survey. Knowledge and Information Systems 55, 3 (2018), 529–569. https:
//doi.org/10.1007/s10115-017-1100-y
2818 components evaluated in this study were not exclusively released for
DBpedia, but were for both DBpedia and Wikipedia in general; some of them
additionally provide dismabiguated URIs for Yago and Freebase.

[11] Paolo Ferragina and Ugo Scaiella. 2010. TAGME: on-the-fly annotation of
short text fragments (by wikipedia entities). In Proceedings of the 19th ACM
Conference on Information and Knowledge Management, CIKM 2010, Toronto,
Ontario, Canada, October 26-30, 2010. ACM, 1625–1628. https://doi.org/10.
1145/1871437.1871689
[12] Óscar Ferrández, Christian Spurk, Milen Kouylekov, Iustin Dornescu, Sergio
Ferrández, Matteo Negri, Rubén Izquierdo, David Tomás, Constantin Orasan,
Guenter Neumann, Bernardo Magnini, and José Luis Vicedo González. 2011.
The QALL-ME Framework: A specifiable-domain multilingual Question An-
swering architecture. J. Web Sem. 9, 2 (2011), 137–145.
[13] Jenny Rose Finkel, Trond Grenager, and Christopher D. Manning. 2005. Incor-
porating Non-local Information into Information Extraction Systems by Gibbs
Sampling. In ACL 2005, 43rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics, Proceedings of the Conference, 25-30 June 2005, University of
Michigan, USA. The Association for Computer Linguistics, 363–370.
[14] Johannes Hoffart, Mohamed Amir Yosef, Ilaria Bordino, Hagen Fürstenau,
Manfred Pinkal, Marc Spaniol, Bilyana Taneva, Stefan Thater, and Gerhard
Weikum. 2011. Robust Disambiguation of Named Entities in Text. In Pro-
ceedings of the 2011 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language
Processing, EMNLP 2011, 27-31 July 2011, John McIntyre Conference Centre,
Edinburgh, UK, A meeting of SIGDAT, a Special Interest Group of the ACL. ACL,
782–792. http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/D11-1072
[15] Zhiheng Huang, Marcus Thint, and Asli Çelikyilmaz. 2009. Investigation
of Question Classifier in Question Answering. In Proceedings of the 2009
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, EMNLP 2009,
6-7 August 2009, Singapore, A meeting of SIGDAT, a Special Interest Group of
the ACL. ACL, 543–550.
[16] Jiseong Kim, GyuHyeon Choi, Jung-Uk Kim, Eun-Kyung Kim, and Key-Sun
Choi. 2016. The Open Framework for Developing Knowledge Base And Ques-
tion Answering System. In Proceedings of COLING 2016, the 26th International
Conference on Computational Linguistics. ACL, 161–165.
[17] Fei Li and H. V. Jagadish. 2014. Constructing an Interactive Natural Language
Interface for Relational Databases. PVLDB 8, 1 (2014), 73–84. http://www.vldb.
org/pvldb/vol8/p73-li.pdf
[18] Edgard Marx, Ricardo Usbeck, Axel-Cyrille Ngonga Ngomo, Konrad Höffner,
Jens Lehmann, and Sören Auer. 2014. Towards an open question answering
architecture. In Proceedings of the 10th International Conference on Semantic
Systems, SEMANTICS 2014, Leipzig, Germany, September 4-5, 2014. ACM, 57–60.
[19] Giuseppe M. Mazzeo and Carlo Zaniolo. 2016. Answering Controlled Natural
Language Questions on RDF Knowledge Bases. In Proceedings of the 19th Inter-
national Conference on Extending Database Technology, EDBT 2016, Bordeaux,
France, March 15-16, 2016, Bordeaux, France, March 15-16, 2016. OpenProceed-
ings.org, 608–611. https://doi.org/10.5441/002/edbt.2016.60
[20] Pablo N. Mendes, Max Jakob, Andrés García-Silva, and Christian Bizer. 2011.
DBpedia spotlight: shedding light on the web of documents. In Proceedings
the 7th International Conference on Semantic Systems, I-SEMANTICS 2011,
Graz, Austria, September 7-9, 2011. ACM, 1–8. https://doi.org/10.1145/2063518.
2063519
[21] George A. Miller. 1995. WordNet: A Lexical Database for English. Commun.
ACM 38, 11 (1995), 39–41. https://doi.org/10.1145/219717.219748
[22] Andrea Moro, Alessandro Raganato, and Roberto Navigli. 2014. Entity Linking
meets Word Sense Disambiguation: a Unified Approach. TACL 2 (2014), 231–
244. https://tacl2013.cs.columbia.edu/ojs/index.php/tacl/article/view/291
[23] Isaiah Onando Mulang, Kuldeep Singh, and Fabrizio Orlandi. 2017. Matching
Natural Language Relations to Knowledge Graph Properties for Question
Answering. In Proceedings of the 13th International Conference on Semantic
Systems, SEMANTICS 2017, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, September 11-14, 2017.
ACM, 89–96.
[24] Sujan Perera, Pablo N. Mendes, Adarsh Alex, Amit P. Sheth, and Krishnaprasad
Thirunarayan. 2016. Implicit Entity Linking in Tweets. In The Semantic Web.
Latest Advances and New Domains - 13th International Conference, ESWC 2016,
Heraklion, Crete, Greece, May 29 - June 2, 2016, Proceedings. Springer, 118–132.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-34129-3_8
[25] Sujan Perera, Pablo N. Mendes, Amit P. Sheth, Krishnaprasad Thirunarayan,
Adarsh Alex, Christopher Heid, and Greg Mott. 2015. Implicit Entity Recog-
nition in Clinical Documents. In Proceedings of the Fourth Joint Confer-
ence on Lexical and Computational Semantics, *SEM 2015, June 4-5, 2015,
Denver, Colorado, USA. The *SEM 2015 Organizing Committee, 228–238.
http://aclweb.org/anthology/S/S15/S15-1028.pdf
[26] Ridho Reinanda, Edgar Meij, and Maarten de Rijke. 2016. Document Filtering
for Long-tail Entities. In Proceedings of the 25th ACM International Conference
on Information and Knowledge Management, CIKM 2016, Indianapolis, IN, USA,
October 24-28, 2016. ACM, 771–780. https://doi.org/10.1145/2983323.2983728
[27] Peter Rousseeuw. 1987. Silhouettes: A Graphical Aid to the Interpretation and
Validation of Cluster Analysis. J. Comput. Appl. Math. 20, 1 (Nov. 1987), 53–65.
https://doi.org/10.1016/0377-0427(87)90125-7
[28] Muhammad Saleem, Samaneh Nazari Dastjerdi, Ricardo Usbeck, and Axel-
Cyrille Ngonga Ngomo. 2017. Question Answering Over Linked Data: What
is Difficult to Answer? What Affects the F scores?. In Joint Proceedings of
BLINK2017: 2nd International Workshop on Benchmarking Linked Data and
NLIWoD3: Natural Language Interfaces for the Web of Data co-located with 16th
International Semantic Web Conference (ISWC 2017), Vienna, Austria, October
21st - to - 22nd, 2017. CEUR-WS.org. http://ceur-ws.org/Vol-1932/paper-02.pdf
[29] Saeedeh Shekarpour, Edgard Marx, Sören Auer, and Amit P. Sheth. 2017.
RQUERY: Rewriting Natural Language Queries on Knowledge Graphs to
Alleviate the Vocabulary Mismatch Problem. In Proceedings of the Thirty-First
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, February 4-9, 2017, San Francisco,
California, USA. AAAI Press, 3936–3943. http://aaai.org/ocs/index.php/AAAI/
AAAI17/paper/view/14638
[30] Saeedeh Shekarpour, Edgard Marx, Axel-Cyrille Ngonga Ngomo, and Sören
Auer. 2015. SINA: Semantic interpretation of user queries for question an-
swering on interlinked data. J. Web Sem. 30 (2015), 39–51. https://doi.org/10.
1016/j.websem.2014.06.002
[31] Kuldeep Singh, Andreas Both, Arun Sethupat Radhakrishna, and Saeedeh
Shekarpour. 2018. Frankenstein: A Platform Enabling Reuse of Question
Answering Components. In The Semantic Web - 15th International Conference,
ESWC 2018, Heraklion, Crete, Greece, June 3-7, 2018, Proceedings. Springer,
624–638. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-93417-4_40
[32] Kuldeep Singh, Isaiah Onando Mulang, Ioanna Lytra, Mohamad Yaser Jaradeh,
Ahmad Sakor, Maria-Esther Vidal, Christoph Lange, and Sören Auer. 2017.
Capturing Knowledge in Semantically-typed Relational Patterns to Enhance
Relation Linking. In Proceedings of the Knowledge Capture Conference, K-CAP
2017, Austin, TX, USA, December 4-6, 2017. ACM, 31:1–31:8.
[33] Kuldeep Singh, Arun Sethupat Radhakrishna, Andreas Both, Saeedeh Shekar-
pour, Ioanna Lytra, Ricardo Usbeck, Akhilesh Vyas, Akmal Khikmatullaev,
Dharmen Punjani, Christoph Lange, Maria-Esther Vidal, Jens Lehmann,
and Sören Auer. 2018.
Why Reinvent the Wheel: Let’s Build Question
Answering Systems Together. In Proceedings of the 2018 World Wide Web
Conference, WWW 2018, Lyon, France, April 23-27, 2018. ACM, 1247–1256.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3178876.3186023
[34] Fabian M. Suchanek, Gjergji Kasneci, and Gerhard Weikum. 2007. Yago: a core
of semantic knowledge. In Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on
World Wide Web, WWW 2007, Banff, Alberta, Canada, May 8-12, 2007. ACM,
697–706. https://doi.org/10.1145/1242572.1242667
[35] Priyansh Trivedi, Gaurav Maheshwari, Mohnish Dubey, and Jens Lehmann.
2017. LC-QuAD: A Corpus for Complex Question Answering over Knowledge
Graphs. In The Semantic Web - ISWC 2017 - 16th International Semantic Web
Conference, Vienna, Austria, October 21-25, 2017, Proceedings, Part II. Springer,
210–218. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-68204-4_22
[36] Christina Unger, Corina Forascu, Vanessa López, Axel-Cyrille Ngonga Ngomo,
Elena Cabrio, Philipp Cimiano, and Sebastian Walter. 2015. Question Answer-
ing over Linked Data (QALD-5). In Working Notes of CLEF 2015 - Conference
and Labs of the Evaluation forum, Toulouse, France, September 8-11, 2015. CEUR-
WS.org. http://ceur-ws.org/Vol-1391/173-CR.pdf
[37] Ricardo Usbeck, Axel-Cyrille Ngonga Ngomo, Michael Röder, Daniel Ger-
ber, Sandro Athaide Coelho, Sören Auer, and Andreas Both. 2014. AGDIS-
TIS - Graph-Based Disambiguation of Named Entities Using Linked Data. In
The Semantic Web - ISWC 2014. Springer, 457–471. https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-319-11964-9_29
[38] Ricardo Usbeck, Michael Röder, Michael Hoffmann, Felix Conrads, Jonathan
Huthmann, Axel-Cyrille Ngonga Ngomo, Christian Demmler, and Christina
Unger. 2017.
Benchmarking Question Answering Systems.
Seman-
tic Web Journal (2017).
http://www.semantic-web-journal.net/content/
benchmarking-question-answering-systems
[39] Ricardo Usbeck, Michael Röder, Axel-Cyrille Ngonga Ngomo, Ciro Baron,
Andreas Both, Martin Brümmer, Diego Ceccarelli, Marco Cornolti, Didier
Cherix, Bernd Eickmann, Paolo Ferragina, Christiane Lemke, Andrea Moro,
Roberto Navigli, Francesco Piccinno, Giuseppe Rizzo, Harald Sack, René Speck,
Raphaël Troncy, Jörg Waitelonis, and Lars Wesemann. 2015. GERBIL: Gen-
eral Entity Annotator Benchmarking Framework. In Proceedings of the 24th
International Conference on World Wide Web, WWW 2015, Florence, Italy, May
18-22, 2015. ACM, 1133–1143. https://doi.org/10.1145/2736277.2741626
[40] Ellen M Voorhees and Donna Harman. 2000. Overview of the sixth text
retrieval conference (TREC-6). Information Processing & Management 36, 1
(2000), 3–35.
[41] Denny Vrandecic. 2012. Wikidata: a new platform for collaborative data
collection. In Proceedings of the 21st World Wide Web Conference, WWW 2012,
Lyon, France, April 16-20, 2012 (Companion Volume). ACM, 1063–1064. https:
//doi.org/10.1145/2187980.2188242
[42] Mo Yu, Wenpeng Yin, Kazi Saidul Hasan, Cícero Nogueira dos Santos, Bing
Xiang, and Bowen Zhou. 2017. Improved Neural Relation Detection for Knowl-
edge Base Question Answering. In Proceedings of the 55th Annual Meeting of
the Association for Computational Linguistics, ACL 2017, Vancouver, Canada,
July 30 - August 4, Volume 1: Long Papers. Association for Computational
Linguistics, 571–581. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/P17-1053
[43] Lei Zou, Ruizhe Huang, Haixun Wang, Jeffrey Xu Yu, Wenqiang He, and
Dongyan Zhao. 2014. Natural language question answering over RDF: a
graph data driven approach. In International Conference on Management of
Data, SIGMOD 2014, Snowbird, UT, USA, June 22-27, 2014. ACM, 313–324.
https://doi.org/10.1145/2588555.2610525