Attention on Attention: Architectures for Visual
Question Answering (VQA)
Jasdeep Singh
Stanford University
jasdeep@stanford.edu
Vincent Ying
Stanford University
vhying@stanford.edu
Alex Nutkiewicz
Stanford University
alexer@stanford.edu
Abstract
Visual Question Answering (VQA) is an increasingly popular topic in deep learn-
ing research, requiring coordination of natural language processing and computer
vision modules into a single architecture. We build upon the model which placed
ﬁrst in the VQA Challenge by developing thirteen new attention mechanisms and
introducing a simpliﬁed classiﬁer. We performed 300 GPU hours of extensive
hyperparameter and architecture searches and were able to achieve an evaluation
score of 64.78%, outperforming the existing state-of-the-art single model’s valida-
tion score of 63.15%. The code is available at github.com/SinghJasdeep/Attention-on-Attention-
for-VQA.
1
Introduction
Visual Question Answering (VQA) is an increasingly popular topic in deep learning research as it
requires coordination of several artiﬁcial intelligence-related disciplines, including Computer Vision
and Natural Language Processing. Due to its growing popularity, last year (2017) a version 2 of the
VQA Challenge was initiated. Due to VQA’s relative complexity and need for ﬁne grained visual
and textual processing, many intricate and highly tuned architectures led performance. We chose to
build upon the relatively simple model proposed by last year’s winners [TAHvdH17] to investigate
the role of attention and ways to improve performance.
At a high level, VQA models require two forms of information: text and images. The inputs to
a VQA model are images and free-form, open-ended natural language questions about the image,
and the model’s goal is to produce a natural language answer about the input [AAL+15]. We use
pre-trained GloVe vectors and a GRU over tokenized questions to produce question embeddings,
and a Faster R-CNN to generate objects centric features from the images. This information is then
passed through an attention module to create a joint embedding of the image-question and the joint
embedding is then passed through a classiﬁer to produce the ﬁnal answer.
Our project aims to investigate previous methods of implementing VQA and to better understand
the characteristics of more successful network architectures for this task. We build upon previ-
ous iterations of winning VQA Challenge models by developing thirteen attention mechanisms and
introducing a simpliﬁed classiﬁer to the model. We evaluate our model against other VQA imple-
mentations via an evaluation metric used in the VQA Challenge and are able to beat the 2017 VQA
Challenge winners best single model scores.
2
Related Work
VQA has been a rapidly growing research topic since the introduction of the seminal paper by
[AAL+15], largely because of its interdisciplinary nature. VQA problems require the model to
understand a text-based question, identify elements of an image, and evaluate how these two inputs
1
arXiv:1803.07724v1  [cs.CL]  21 Mar 2018

relate to one another. Much of the progress in VQA parallels developments made in other problems,
such as image captioning [XBK+15] [VTBE16] and textual question answering [KIS+15][XMS16].
The primary method to approach VQA tasks is based on three subcomponents: creating repre-
sentations for the image and question; passing these inputs through a neural network to create a
co-dependent embedding; and then generating the correct natural language response. Past work by
Xiong et al. has investigated several improvements to the input modules of dynamic memory net-
works (DMN), which were originally developed for textual question answering, in order to show
that a basic DMN architecture could be utilized for visual question answering. [XMS16] However,
since then model architectures for visual and textual question answering have been specializing to
their domains. With the models for visual question answering preferring more and more sophisti-
cated single pass attention mechanisms. In a related paper ”Show, Attend and Tell: Neural image
caption generation with visual attention,” Xu et al. introduced an attention based model that learned
to describe the content of images using two different attention modules: stochastic ”hard” attention
and deterministic ”soft” attention. [XBK+15]
The current state-of-the-art model in VQA was developed by Teney et al. for the 2017 VQA Chal-
lenge, in which they show how very simple, interpretable models can achieve strong performance.
Their experiments show the signiﬁcance of carefully designing image features, attention mecha-
nisms (bottom-up and top-down), gated activations, and output embeddings on model performance.
[TAHvdH17]
3
Datasets
While many large-scale datasets have been developed for the application of VQA, we decided to
utilize the VQA v2.0 dataset, which contains over 200,000 images, over 1 million questions and
over 11 million answers and at least three questions per image preventing the model from inferring
the question without considering the input image [GKSS+17]. With this data, we do the following
preprocessing:
• Training questions and answers are tokenized and then trimmed/padded to a maximum
length of 14 words. These tokens are then represented using 300-dimentional pre-trained
Wikipedia+Gigaword GloVe word embeddings [PSM14].
• Thirty six features per image are created via passing the VQA v2.0 images through a Faster
R-CNN, with bottom-up attention, as proposed by [AHB+17]. The Faster R-CNN detects
object centric elements in the input image. This CNN is pre-trained and is held ﬁxed during
the training of the VQA model. All images are pre-converted to Faster R-CNN features for
efﬁciency purposes.
4
Methodology
Our proposed model (Figure 1) derives inspiration from the winning architecture developed by
Teney et al. for the 2017 VQA Challenge. The model implements a joint RNN/CNN for ques-
tion and image embeddings, respectively. It then uses top-down attention, guided by the question
embedding, on the image embeddings. The model inputs are preprocessed GloVe embeddings and
Faster R-CNN feature vectors as discussed in Section 3. As stated in Section 3, the question in-
puts are tokenized and represented using GloVe word embeddings. They are then passed through
a GRU to create the ﬁnal question embedding. The image feature vectors along with this question
embedding of size number-of-hidden-units (1280) are then passed into the dual one-way top-down
attention module (A3x2). This module computes the the relevance of each of the 36 image vec-
tors (corresponding to 36 different objects determined by the faster R-CNN) to the current question
embedding using the following equations.
ai = wfc(fa(ˆi) ◦fb(ˆq)) + b
(1)
a′
i = w′fc′(fa′(ˆi) ◦fb′(ˆq)) + b′
(2)
Where fx is a fully connected layer with a non-linearity, w is a weight matrix for a linear layer with
output dimension of 1, and b is a scalar.
2

Figure 1: Visual representation of VQA model architecture and attention modules. The speciﬁcs of
each attention module are described in the text but A3x2 performed the best out of all the modules
architectures investigated.
The attention weights are then normalized using a softmax function.
α = softmax(a) + softmax(a′)
(3)
The ﬁnal image embedding is then created by taking a weighted sum of the original 36 image vectors
using the attention scalars as weights.
ˆv =
K
X
i=1
(αivi)
(4)
The ﬁnal image vector and the question embedding are then passed through separate one layer
transformation modules, that rearrange and convert the input vectors to the same dimensions. The
resulting vectors from the one layer transformation modules are then element-wise multiplied to-
gether to create the ﬁnal joint embedding. This joint embedding is then given to a simple 2 layer
classiﬁcation module that outputs a probability via a sigmoid layer for each of the possible answers
in our answer vocabulary. The word corresponding to the maximum of these output probabilities
is then taken to be the predicted answer, from which the accuracy can then be calculated using the
equation from [TAHvdH17]:
accuracy =
1
mv
V al
X
(one hot(argmax(ˆy)) · y).
(5)
Alternatively these output probabilities could also be passed to a binary cross entropy loss layer
during training.
L = 1
mt
mt
X
i=1
−(y log(ˆy) −(1 −y) log(1 −ˆy))
(6)
For justiﬁcation of our architecture choices refer to Section 5.
3

5
Experimentation
Our initial experimentation was performed using hyperparameters identical to the ones used by
Teney et al. However, instead of using the Adadelta optimizer we chose Adamax, and we replaced
gated tanh layers with one-layer networks of twice the size because we found these modiﬁcations
were able to produce a more robust model over a larger range of hyperparameters.
In our literature review of VQA models, we found one of the biggest determinants for increased
model accuracy were new and improved attention mechanisms. To investigate this pattern, we im-
plemented ﬁve new attention modules (A0, A1, A2, A3, APD), as shown in Figure 1. We evaluated
these ﬁve modules, in addition to the original attention (AP) proposed by Teney et al. and identiﬁed
the AP, A2, and A3 modules to be the most promising. The model architectures were evaluated
based on their performance on the validation set (Equation 5).
Figure 2: Graphical representation of attention module architecture evaluation. Six primary attention
modules were evaluated, and further investigation was conducted on the three optimally performing
modules (A2, A3, AP). The best performing attention module, A3x2, was then used for further
hyperparameter tuning.
However, we noticed that many of the attention mechanisms used in literature, including all six that
we tested, had a softmax ﬁnal layer. We hypothesized that this may lead to a signal bottleneck in our
model and prevent the model from being able to answer questions about images that required equal
attention to several regions of the image. To investigate this, we decided to add multiple attention
modules to our model and also added a sigmoid ﬁnal layer to our best performing attention module
at the time (A3) to create A3S (Figure 1).
After evaluating these parallel stacked attention modules and their sigmoid variants, we found the
A3x2 to perform optimally and decided to pursue all further hyperparameter search using this atten-
tion module in our model.
Hyperparameters were tuned one at a time and the general ﬂow is presented in Figure 3. We ﬁrst
took our baseline model and investigated the effects of using weight normalization. We found that
weight normalization (at the purple layers in Figure 2) improved performance, so we decided to keep
it for further hyperparameter tuning. Next, we investigated activation functions and found the leaky
ReLU to give optimal performance. At each subsequent hyperparameter step, we found the optimal
value and did all following searches using that updated value. The approach may be thought of as a
greedy hyperparameter search. This approach was taken over a randomized hyperparameter search
due to the large space of hyperparameters searched with relatively few resources.
At each step, we determined the optimal hyperparameters based on validation set accuracy. However
as can be seen from Figure 4 our models over-ﬁt the training set given enough epochs. When
compared to other papers, we found this to be expected because there is a large disparity between
the distribution of questions in the validation and training set. This is understandable because VQA
is such an open ended task, with an inﬁnite number of possible image-question-answer triplets.
4

Figure 3: Hyperparameters and selected values used for experimentation. Boxes highlighted in blue
had the highest performance and were selected for the ﬁnal model.
Figure 4: Final model training and validation performance, after hyperparameter search.
Furthermore, the validation set consisted of 60,000 of the total 200,000 images while the training
set consisted of a nearly similar amount of 80,000 images. Although our model may have been
over-ﬁtting the training set, it is very unlikely that dropout and activation function tuning led to
over-ﬁtting of the validation data set.
6
Results and Discussion
After determining the optimal model through experimentation and tuning, we were able to achieve
an evaluation score of 64.78%, out performing the existing state-of-the-art single model’s validation
score of 63.15% (Table 1).
Figure 5: Each attention module is able to pick up on different features of an input image.
We believe one of the most signiﬁcant reasons our score was able to beat the state-of-the art results
was because of the more sophisticated attention mechanism. The ﬁnal model used attention mech-
anism A3x2, which takes two A3 attention mechanisms and stacks them in parallel with the ability
to focus on multiple aspects of an image. Figure 5 contains three heatmaps to show how adding a
5

Table 1: Performance of Our Model vs. State-of-the-Art
MODEL
VAL PERFORMANCE SCORE
Our Model
Score 64.78 %
Teney et al. Model
Score 63.15 %
second attention mechanism allows the model to learn different aspects of an input image. As you
can see form Image 1, for simple attention tasks both of our attention mechanisms are able to ﬁnd
the appropriate locations in the image. However, in Image 2 you can see when the task requires
the need to focus highly on multiple locations in an image our model has an edge over previously
presented models, which in theory leads to its increased accuracy. However for more complicated
tasks such as image 3, the dual attention mechanism seems to get confused, providing no obvious
advantages.
7
Limitations, Future Work, and Conclusion
While our computational and time resources were limited as a result of class deadlines and budget,
we were able to begin an extensive architecture and hyperparameter search. Our future work would
look at the synergistic effects of some of these hyperparameters, as well as experiment with how a
bi-directional attention mechanism would impact performance. Further we would like to ensemble
our models so that an accurate comparison could be made with he state of the art models on the test
data. However Teney et al. like many others ensembled 30 models to get state of the art performance
which was unfeasible for us with our resources.
Visual Question Answering is a unique challenge in modern Artiﬁcial Intelligence research as it
combines learnings from both Computer Vision and Natural Language Processing. This paper pre-
sented our ﬁndings on what can be done to improve performance in VQA tasks and further expands
upon preexisting work by improving the model’s image features, creating new attention mecha-
nisms, and adding a simple classiﬁer. We were able to surpass existing state-of-the art results, and
we hope the insights learned from the completion of this project will inform further progress in this
task.
References
[AAL+15]
Stanislaw Antol, Aishwarya Agrawal, Jiasen Lu, Margaret Mitchell, Dhruv Batra,
C Lawrence Zitnick, and Devi Parikh. Vqa: Visual question answering. In Proceed-
ings of the IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision, pages 2425–2433,
2015.
[AHB+17]
Peter Anderson, Xiaodong He, Chris Buehler, Damien Teney, Mark Johnson, Stephen
Gould, and Lei Zhang. Bottom-up and top-down attention for image captioning and
vqa. arXiv preprint arXiv:1707.07998, 2017.
[GKSS+17]
Yash Goyal, Tejas Khot, Douglas Summers-Stay, Dhruv Batra, and Devi Parikh.
Making the v in vqa matter: Elevating the role of image understanding in visual
question answering. In CVPR, volume 1, page 9, 2017.
[KIS+15]
Ankit Kumar, Ozan Irsoy, Jonathan Su, James Bradbury, Robert English, Brian
Pierce, Peter Ondruska, Ishaan Gulrajani, and Richard Socher. Ask me anything:
Dynamic memory networks for natural language processing. CoRR, abs/1506.07285,
2015.
[PSM14]
Jeffrey Pennington, Richard Socher, and Christopher Manning. Glove: Global vectors
for word representation. In Proceedings of the 2014 conference on empirical methods
in natural language processing (EMNLP), pages 1532–1543, 2014.
[TAHvdH17] Damien Teney, Peter Anderson, Xiaodong He, and Anton van den Hengel. Tips and
tricks for visual question answering: Learnings from the 2017 challenge. CoRR,
abs/1708.02711, 2017.
6

[VTBE16]
Oriol Vinyals, Alexander Toshev, Samy Bengio, and Dumitru Erhan.
Show and
tell: Lessons learned from the 2015 MSCOCO image captioning challenge. CoRR,
abs/1609.06647, 2016.
[XBK+15]
Kelvin Xu, Jimmy Ba, Ryan Kiros, Kyunghyun Cho, Aaron C. Courville, Ruslan
Salakhutdinov, Richard S. Zemel, and Yoshua Bengio. Show, attend and tell: Neural
image caption generation with visual attention. CoRR, abs/1502.03044, 2015.
[XMS16]
Caiming Xiong, Stephen Merity, and Richard Socher. Dynamic memory networks
for visual and textual question answering. CoRR, abs/1603.01417, 2016.
Our code builds upon and uses all the preprocessing presented by https://github.com/hengyuan-
hu/bottom-up-attention-vqa
7