Dynamic Information Retrieval: Theoretical Framework and
Application
Marc Sloan and Jun Wang
Department of Computer Science
University College London
M.Sloan@cs.ucl.ac.uk, J.Wang@cs.ucl.ac.uk
ABSTRACT
Theoretical frameworks like the Probability Ranking Prin-
ciple and its more recent Interactive Information Retrieval
variant have guided the development of ranking and retrieval
algorithms for decades, yet they are not capable of helping
us model problems in Dynamic Information Retrieval which
exhibit the following three properties; an observable user sig-
nal, retrieval over multiple stages and an overall search in-
tent. In this paper a new theoretical framework for retrieval
in these scenarios is proposed. We derive a general dynamic
utility function for optimizing over these types of tasks, that
takes into account the utility of each stage and the proba-
bility of observing user feedback. We apply our framework
to experiments over TREC data in the dynamic multi page
search scenario as a practical demonstration of its eﬀective-
ness and to frame the discussion of its use, its limitations
and to compare it against the existing frameworks.
Categories and Subject Descriptors
H.3.3 [Information Search and Retrieval]: Relevance
feedback; Retrieval Models; Search process;
Keywords
Dynamic IR, Interactive IR, Ranking and Retrieval Theory
1.
INTRODUCTION
The theoretical frameworks that underpin research in In-
formation Retrieval (IR) are based on abstract models of
user beneﬁt. For instance, the loss function deﬁned in the
classic Probability Ranking Principle (PRP) [26] leads to
justiﬁcation for the simplest and most powerful ranking rule
in IR; ranking documents in decreasing order of their prob-
ability of relevance. A recent counterpart is the Probabil-
ity Ranking Principle for Interactive Information Retrieval
(IIR-PRP) [12], which relaxes the independence assump-
tion in the PRP’s model to take into account non-linear
decision making. For example, document dependence is a
key element in IR diversiﬁcation that is not handled by
the PRP [32]. These models deal with traditional ad hoc
query ranking and retrieval. Yet search tasks are complex
and often exploratory, being comprised of multiple stages
of retrieval with information needs specialized or general-
ized over time [35]. Throughout, a user may broadcast sig-
nals of search intent that can help an IR system to improve
retrieval. Examples include query reformulation in session
search [29] and item ratings in collaborative ﬁltering [15].
The described models are not capable of representing search
tasks that operate over multiple stages nor can they incor-
porate user feedback.
These types of problems belong to the area of IR research
known as Dynamic Information Retrieval (DIR), which we
deﬁne as exhibiting three characteristics: user feedback, tem-
poral dependency and an overall goal.
In this paper we
present DIR as a natural progression in IR research complex-
ity; where early research concerned static problems such as
ad hoc retrieval, which gave way to interactive tasks such as
those incorporating relevance feedback [27], ﬁnally leading
to dynamic systems where tasks such as ranking for session
search are optimized [24].
From this progression we mathematically formulate a gen-
eralized framework that models the expected beneﬁt to a
user of completing a DIR task. This beneﬁt is represented as
a recursive utility function that is goal oriented and adaptive
over time. The components of this utility function represent
the three DIR features: the likelihood of user feedback, a
probability of relevance model conditioned on this feedback
and an individual stage utility function. The optimization
of this recursive utility leads to an optimal policy of actions
dependent on user interactions in the dynamic setting.
This utility is shown to be a form of Bellman equation [3],
the framework an instantiation of a Partially Observable
Markov Decision Process (POMDP) [31] and also a gen-
eralization over existing research in DIR [24, 19]. The com-
ponents of the utility can also be linked to the cost-beneﬁt
parameters of the IIR-PRP and the discount-gain functions
found in session-based metrics such as sDCG [21].
The
structure of the utility function and its links to these areas
of research give us interesting insights into the behavior of
the function in DIR problems. These insights, such as how
the quality and diversiﬁcation of rankings vary over multiple
stages, are supported by our experiments performed using a
speciﬁc application of the DIR utility function over TREC
data. Our experimental setting is the multi-page search sce-
nario of choosing optimal rankings to display over several
search pages for a ﬁxed query [22, 19], a simpliﬁed DIR
problem. As well as being a demonstration of the implemen-
tation of each of the components that make up the utility,
practical aspects such as the computational complexity are
also explored.
Thus, through its supporting theory (Section 2) and appli-
cation (Section 4), we establish our dynamic utility function
(Section 3) as a new theoretical framework for the modeling
of dynamic information retrieval problems.
2.
COMPARISON OF IR FRAMEWORKS
Before setting up our framework for dynamic information
retrieval, we consider DIR in the context of existing static
arXiv:1601.04605v1  [cs.IR]  18 Jan 2016

Figure 1: An example illustration of document ranking and relevance feedback using the vector space model for query
Q1 = apple. Documents are given as points over two term frequency axes, computer and fruit, and can belong to one
of three subtopics apple fruit, apple logo and apple computer. The distance between Q and each document is inversely
proportional to its relevance r. The documents ranked for Q1 or its reformulation Q2 are contained in each circular shape ⃗a,
whose area could be thought of as the static utility US(⃗a,⃗r), or UD the combined area of actions across stages 1 and 2.
Q1
fruit
computer
r
apple fruit
apple logo
apple computer
aPRP
 
(a) Static IR: Documents within
the ranking ⃗aPRP are shown to
the user for query Q1, but do not
cover all subtopics.
Optimally
ranking using the PRP results in
choosing those documents with
the highest relevance.
aIIR
 
Q1
fruit
computer
  
Q2
o
o
(b) Interactive IR: After rele-
vance feedback is observed (the
two click observations o) on the
static ranking in Fig. 1a, Q1 is
modiﬁed to Q2. Document rele-
vance for Q2 is now deﬁned by τ
and the new interactive ranking
given by documents in ⃗aIIR.
 
Q1
fruit
computer
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
aPRP
a3 
a1 
a2 
(c) Dynamic IR: Four potential
rankings ⃗a1, ⃗a2, ⃗a3 and ⃗aPRP
and their observation probabili-
ties (shown as click observations
with likelihood relative to size)
for Q1 are explored to ﬁnd the
optimal ranking action for both
stages.
Q1
fruit
computer
Q2
o
o
aIIR
 
aDIR
 
(d) Optimal Solution:
Action
⃗a1
is
chosen
as
the
optimal
stage 1 ranking ⃗aDIR as it di-
versely contains documents from
all subtopics.
As a result, the
ranking ⃗aIIR for Q2 is more ac-
curately modiﬁed after observing
interactive feedback.
and interactive theoretical IR frameworks in order to math-
ematically identify those features that distinguish it.
2.1
Static IR Framework
Deﬁnition: A static IR framework is one which models
single user interactions, or else multiple independent interac-
tions of diﬀerent search intents. A typical application would
be an ad hoc ranking and retrieval system.
The objective of a static system is to choose an action
a (or sequence of actions ⃗a = ⟨a1, a2, . . .⟩), each of which
has an associated probability of relevance r (or ⃗r for
a sequence of actions) that maximizes some static utility
function US(a, r). The action represents a choice that can
be made by the system and belongs to some action space
A. For example, a may be a query suggestion to display
to a user, or ⃗a the ranking order of a set of documents for
retrieval. The utility function gives value to the action based
on its probability of relevance by modeling the beneﬁt of
the action to the user. Utilities such as expected DCG and
MAP [33] are examples from document retrieval, rewarding
the ranking of relevant documents at high ranking positions.
2.1.1
Probability Ranking Principle (PRP)
The PRP deﬁnes US(a, r) as a loss minimizing function
across pairs of documents, which is optimized when ranking
documents in decreasing order of probability of relevance
(under document independence assumptions) [26]. Nonethe-
less, in instances where result diversity is important, it can
be shown that PRP is no longer optimal [32]. We illustrate
this with our example in Fig. 1a. Here, we represent a sim-
pliﬁed vector space model for ranking and retrieval using a
graph over two term axes. In this case, the query is apple,
an ambiguous term that can describe three subtopic search
intents. Those documents within the ranking ⃗aPRP for the
query are retrieved (analogous to ranking under the PRP),
and as we can see, in this case only two subtopic preferences
are captured. Over a population of users, those seeking in-
formation on the apple logo subtopic would be dissatisﬁed.
We can capture this probabilistically by supposing that
we have two classes of users, user1 and user2, where user1
has twice as many members as user2. Users in the user1
class are satisﬁed with the apple logo and apple computer
subtopics, but not apple fruit, while those in the user2
class are only satisﬁed with the apple fruit subtopic. Our
action space here is the set of subtopics which we denote
{a1 = apple logo, a2 = apple computer, a3 = apple fruit}
and our goal is to choose the best ranking of subtopics.
If we set Rak = 1 if ak is relevant, and rak = P(Rak = 1),
then we have ra1 = 2
3, ra2 = 2
3 and ra3 = 1
3. According to
the PRP, we should rank in decreasing order of the proba-
bility of relevance, giving us the ranking sequence ⃗aPRP =
⟨a1, a2, a3⟩. However, intuitively this is not optimal because
users belonging to user2 have to reject two subtopics before
reaching their preference [8].
We can explain this math-
ematically by studying the optimization of the diversity-
encouraging metric Expected Search Length. One can also
derive the same conclusion analogously using the equivalent
Expected Reciprocal Rank or k-call at n measures [5]. In
this scenario, US(⃗a,⃗r) = E[L]⃗a which is the summation of
all possible search lengths L weighted by their respective
probabilities, given as
E[L]⃗a =
X
i
 (i −1)P(R1 = 0, . . . , Ri−1 = 0, Ri = 1)

where Ri is the relevance of the subtopic at rank position
i. When assuming subtopics are independent, i.e. P(R1 =
0, . . . , Ri = 1) = P(R1 = 0) . . . P(Ri−1 = 0)P(Ri = 1) the
expected search length for ranking ⃗aPRP is
E[L]⃗aPRP = 0·ra1 + 1·ra2(1−ra1) + 2·ra3(1−ra2)(1−ra1)
= 0·(2/3) + 1·(2/3)(1/3) + 2·(1/3)(1/3)(1/3) = 8/27
and for a diversiﬁed ranking ⃗aDIV = ⟨a1, a3, a2⟩the expected
search length is
E[L]⃗aDIV = 0·(2/3)+1·(1/3)(1/3)+2·(2/3)2(1/3)=11/27
Thus, in this case the PRP ranked documents have a
shorter expected search path than the diversiﬁed ranking.
Here, the PRP does lead to the optimal ranking under the
independence assumption, but when we remove it this is no

longer the case.
To see this, we recalculate the expected
search length for ⃗aPRP and ⃗aDIV but this time without the
independence assumption:
E[L]⃗aPRP = 0 · ra1 + 1 · P(Ra2 = 1, Ra1 = 0))
+ 2 · P(Ra3 = 1, Ra2 = 0, Ra1 = 0)
= 0 · (2/3) + 1 · 0 + 2 · (1/3) = 2/3
E[L]⃗aDIV = 0 · (2/3) + 1 · (1/3) + 2 · 0 = 1/3
Now we ﬁnd that the diversiﬁed ranking ⃗aDIV has the
shorter expected search length and is thus the optimal rank-
ing, despite the lower probability of relevance for a3.
2.2
Interactive IR Framework
Deﬁnition: An interactive IR framework extends a static
framework to cover multiple stages of IR. It is responsive to
feedback from a previous stage but does not anticipate future
feedback.
A stage represents an interaction with the search system
that is distinct from other interactions but belongs to the
same search task, for example a sequence of impressions in
session search. Generally, an IR system will operate over
1 ≤t ≤T stages with T being potentially inﬁnite.
Further to this, an interactive IR framework incorporates
user feedback. Feedback is an observation signal o (or a se-
quence of observations ⃗o) in the space O, that is measurable
by the search system. These signals may be explicit dec-
larations of the relevance of search items (such as a movie
rating), or implicit interpretations of user actions (such as
document clicks).
The ﬁnal element of this framework is the relevance up-
date function τ where rt+1 = τ(at, rt, ot). Thus, the objec-
tive function for interactive IR at stage t+1 can now be rep-
resented as argmaxat+1∈A US
 at+1, τ(at, rt, ot)

. The rele-
vance update function τ introduces temporal dependency
into the framework, without it the objective simply devolves
to optimization over the static utility US(a, r). This is also
the case when ﬁnding the optimal ﬁrst stage action a1 i.e.
when there are not yet any observations. In interactive IR,
the optimal action is chosen at each stage as a reaction to
the feedback observed in the previous stage and there is no
consideration for future utility.
With these features in mind, we extend the vector space
example to the interactive scenario in Fig. 1b by introduc-
ing the Rocchio relevance feedback algorithm [27] for in-
teractively re-ranking documents. Here, clicked documents
in the PRP ranked ﬁrst stage are used as implicit signals of
relevance to modify the user’s original query Q1 to Q2. Doc-
ument re-retrieval occurs using Q2, returning documents us-
ing updated relevance scores given by τ, which is a function
of Q2 and thus the original ranking ⃗aPRP, document relevan-
cies r and observations o. Nonetheless, even in this interac-
tive framework, a user interested in the apple logo subtopic
would be dissatisﬁed with both the ⃗aPRP and ⃗aIIR rankings
due to a lack of documents for the relevant subtopic.
2.2.1
Interactive Information Retrieval (IIR)
For clariﬁcation, the area of research traditionally known
as Interactive Information Retrieval (IIR) has an alternative
deﬁnition to the interactive IR framework discussed in this
paper, despite the similarity in name. IIR research explores
the complex sequence of interactions a user may have with
a search ranking within the static framework [28], largely
motivated by the contradictory results found from conven-
tional Cranﬁeld style evaluation [7] and observational user
studies [14]. With the exception of the IIR-PRP framework
which we cover in more detail in Section 3.3.1, for the re-
mainder of this paper any reference to interactive IR instead
reﬂects the framework deﬁned in this paper.
3.
DYNAMIC IR THEORY
A dynamic system is one which is goal-directed and adap-
tive to its environment. From this deﬁnition we can specify
three elements that determine whether an IR system is a
dynamic one:
Feedback An observation signal from the user.
Temporal Dependency Operation across multiple stages
where each stage depends on the previous stage.
Overall Goal An objective across all stages.
3.1
Dynamic IR Framework
Deﬁnition: A dynamic IR framework extends an inter-
active framework by being responsive to user feedback and
optimizing for it in advance.
We previously deﬁned systems in the interactive IR frame-
work as exhibiting both feedback and temporal dependency
features, but they are only capable of locally optimizing for
a single stage at a time. In contrast, the optimization of
a dynamic system will ﬁnd the optimal sequence of actions
for all future interactions. A result of this is that the utility
of an individual stage may be reduced so that gains can be
made in the utility at a future stage.
Unlike the interactive IR framework, the observation o
is unknown when evaluating the utility of future stages in
the dynamic IR framework.
Instead, the expected utility
can be found by marginalizing the utility function over the
space of observations O. When doing this the observation
likelihood function P(o|a, r) must be speciﬁed. This gives
the expected utility
E[US(a, r)] =
X
o∈O
P(o|a, r)US(a, r)
(1)
The observation likelihood function is represented visually
in Fig. 1c. In dynamic IR, the expected utility of potential
ﬁrst stage rankings (given here as ⃗a1, ⃗a2, ⃗a3 and the opti-
mal static ranking ⃗aPRP) are calculated by estimating which
documents are likely to receive clicks and the eﬀect this has
on the utility of future stages. The PRP ranking is simply
one among many rank actions that can be considered.
The ﬁnal component of the DIR framework is the path
discount function ω(t). When optimizing over a potentially
inﬁnite number of future stages, this helps ensure that a
solution exists and also gives greater weight to earlier stage
utilities.
By bringing together all of the components described so
far, we can deﬁne the utility function for dynamic in-
formation retrieval as
UD(rt, t) = max
at∈A

US(at, rt)+
ω(t)
X
o∈O
P(o|at, rt)UD(τ(at, rt, o), t + 1)

(2)
where UD(rT , T) = maxaT ∈A

US(aT , rT )

is the static op-
timization of the ﬁnal stage. Thus, our objective is to ﬁnd,

through backwards induction, the optimal sequence of ac-
tions ⃗a∗= ⟨a1, . . . , aT ⟩that maximizes the dynamic util-
ity UD given in Eq. (2). To derive this utility we have simply
recursively applied the dynamic utility to the expected util-
ity from Eq. (1).
Through the maximization of the dynamic utility, in our
example in Fig. 1d we ﬁnd the optimal action for stage 1,
which is to diversify the initial ranking so that it retrieves
documents belonging to all three subtopics. While this may
harm the immediate retrieval utility score, overall the system
improves because it can more accurately re-rank results over
the subtopic preferences for all users in the next stage.
We observe that the eight elements of the DIR frame-
work: a, r, US, t, o, τ, P(o|a, r) and ω(t), are also the
elements that deﬁne a POMDP [31], and that the dynamic
utility function is its corresponding Bellman equation [3].
Intuitively this makes sense, like a POMDP the dynamic
IR framework ﬁnds an optimal Markovian sequence of ac-
tions to maximize a reward (here the static utility) subject
to discounting (with ω). The state of the system (the un-
derlying document relevance) is unknown but a belief state
(the probability of relevance) is updated according to ob-
servations. The key diﬀerence from a POMDP is that for
dynamic IR we do not deﬁne a transition probability be-
tween states as we assume that the hidden relevance of each
document does not change throughout the search task.
3.2
Framework Analysis
So far we have described the general framework for dy-
namic IR but have not addressed the setting of its param-
eters. Here we analyze each component within the context
of dynamic information retrieval.
Relevance. As with any framework in information retrieval,
the overall aim is to retrieve relevant information items and
present them to the user.
The intrinsic ‘relevance’ of an
information item is an unknown quality and the subject of
most of the research in IR. In the DIR framework any doc-
ument relevance scoring method can be used. For instance,
in our application in the next section we make use of ﬁve
well established relevance scoring techniques.
The relevance update function τ is more diﬃcult to deﬁne
as it depends speciﬁcally on the action and observation space
of the DIR task, for instance in Fig. 1b it depends on the
distance of the documents from Q2, which itself depends
on Q1, ⃗aPRP and its clicked documents. This dependence
allows τ to adapt to the hidden relevance preferences of the
user over the course of the search process.
It may not always be clear how to update the relevance
score based on a given observation, the most straightforward
setting for τ can simply be to set ra = 0 for actions already
chosen by the IR system. Because τ enforces the temporal
dependency, it is the most important aspect in the dynamic
utility because without it the utility is static.
Actions. The action space is what distinguishes search tasks
from one another and it is the size of this space that dictates
the complexity of optimizing over the dynamic utility func-
tion. For example, the action space in query suggestion or
document ranking is potentially inﬁnite whereas the space
of available advertisements in an ad selection problem may
be small and ﬁnite. In our example the action space is any
potential grouping of the documents in the 2D term space
(four such groupings are shown in Fig. 1c). Along with τ,
the setting of the static utility US is important for deter-
mining the desirable features of the optimal action sequence
⃗a∗, such as results diversiﬁcation.
Observations. The observation space is dependent on the
action space, its elements representing the user’s response
to system actions. Each observation must contain some sig-
nal of relevance or search intent, otherwise we would have
τ(a, r, o) = τ(a, r) and lose the temporal dependency.
In
some cases the value of the observation likelihood is simply
P(o|a, r) = r, for instance in search tasks where accurate ex-
plicit relevance feedback is guaranteed. Otherwise, in most
situations the observations will be click-related and thus the
observation probability is the probability of click, as is the
case in our example (Fig. 1).
Stages. Typically, the stages in a DIR task will represent
distinct interactions occurring in a linear time order.
In
these cases ω(t) may take a value between 0 and 1 or be set to
a monotonically decreasing function that favorably weights
the utility scores of immediate stages.
Setting ω(1) = 1
and ω(t) = 0 for t > 1 gives us the static and interactive
scenarios.
Alternatively, a non-linear sequence of interactions (or
search path) can be modeled as Yang and Lad did with
their session-based utility function [37]. For instance in ses-
sion search, a search path represents a particular sequence
of documents examined by the user and the query reformu-
lations made. For our framework, the stage t may instead
represent a speciﬁc search path, and so ω(t) could be inter-
preted as the likelihood of this path rather than an explicit
discount, penalizing improbable search paths and rewarding
likely ones.
The time horizon T dictates the number of advance stages
to optimize for. A large time horizon will lead to explorative
action strategies that beneﬁt later stages.
In our experi-
ments, we set T = 2 so that we only consider exploitative
optimizations for the immediate next stage.
Dynamic Utility. Through the recursive evaluation of the
utility function we not only learn the optimal sequence of ac-
tions to make in the dynamic system, but we also learn the
optimal action for each possible observation at each stage.
If we were to store these in a lookup table ahead of deploy-
ment, then the dynamic system would be immediately re-
sponsive to user feedback and able to cater to a population
of users.
Nonetheless, the construction and storage com-
plexity of such a table may prove intractable. We also note
that the static utility US may be set as the dynamic utility
function UD of a nested subproblem in the search task. For
example, the utility of choosing an optimal ranking of doc-
uments may be embedded in the utility for determining an
optimal sequence of rankings for a user in a session, which
itself may be deﬁned within the context of modeling a user’s
topic preference from search sessions in their search history.
3.3
Links to Existing Work
Building on our analysis of the DIR framework, here we
identify links between its components and other related work
in IIR and session search.
3.3.1
IIR-PRP
The IIR-PRP [12] is a framework designed for interac-
tive IR in the traditional sense. The objective function in

IIR-PRP balances the costs and beneﬁts of choosing actions
within a sequence and bears some similarities to our dynamic
utility function. Nonetheless, by lacking any form of user
feedback or temporal dependency, we do not describe the
model as interactive or dynamic, and as already discussed,
within the terminology used in this paper this means that
it is actually a static method.
By mapping our notation onto the IIR-PRP objective
function, we get
UIIR(⃗a,⃗r) =
M
X
i=1
i−1
Y
j=1
(1 −rj)

×

ω(i) + ri
X
o∈⃗o
P(o|ai, ri)US(ai, ri)

(3)
evaluated over a sequence of M actions (usually a ranking of
documents). Eq. (3) is a generalization of the formula orig-
inally deﬁned, where we recognize that the cost and beneﬁt
parameters are simply a utility value, that the probability of
whether a user continues searching or not is the observation
likelihood, and that the cost of reaching a speciﬁc action is
the path discount.
Further to this, the IIR-PRP deﬁnes a simple ranking
rule according to this utility model, ranking documents in
order of decreasing value of function ϱ(a, r), which balances
the costs and beneﬁts of choosing an action as well as its
probability of relevance. We can deﬁne ϱ in our setting as
ϱ(⃗a1...i,⃗r1...i, ω) = US(⃗a1...i,⃗r1...i) −ω
rai
i−1
Y
j=1
(1 −raj)
(4)
where the utility of adding an action ai to an existing se-
quence is countered by the path discount and the probability
of not ﬁnding previous actions relevant. We implement this
in our algorithm for IIR-PRP in Algorithm 2 in the next
section.
3.3.2
Session-Based Utility
There have been recent advances in the modeling of user
beneﬁt across queries in search sessions. This is in recogni-
tion of the fact that ad-hoc retrieval often occurs over multi-
ple queries in a session [35], with one study ﬁnding that 32%
of search sessions consisted of at least three queries [17]. A
simple approach has been to extend discount-gain metrics
such as DCG and Average Precision, typically associated
with static retrieval, across multiple stages. Using our ter-
minology, a discount-gain function for a single stage has the
form PM
i=1 ω(i)US(ai, ri). For example, in the DCG met-
ric the setting would be ω(i) =
1
log2(i+1) and US(ai, ri) =
2rai −1. For the session-DCG (sDCG) [18] metric, a single
layer of recursion is introduced, where
sDCG =
T
X
t=1
ω(t)U(⃗at,⃗rt)
(5)
and the discount and gain functions are set as ω(t) =
1
log2t(t+1)
and
U(⃗at,⃗rt) = DCG(⃗at,⃗rt) =
M
X
i=1
1
log2(i + 1)
|
{z
}
ω(i)
×( 2rati −1
|
{z
}
US(ati,rti)
)
Here, the stages operate across a linear sequence of search
rankings.
In the session-Average Precision (sAP) metric,
the path of interaction taken by the user is unknown and so
the metric function marginalizes over the space of all such
paths to ﬁnd the expected sAP [21].
4.
APPLICATION
So far we have formulated a theoretical framework for dy-
namic IR and derived the dynamic utility function UD given
in Eq. (2). In this section we apply this framework to the
multi page search problem in DIR. In doing so we demon-
strate functional settings for the elements in the framework
and their implementation in a workable algorithm, which
gives us useful insight into the practical limitations of op-
timizing over UD. We compare our algorithm against PRP
and IIR-PRP based approaches in experiments using TREC
data and also investigate static and interactive variants of
our objective function. Through this we gain understanding
of the eﬀect that dynamic utility optimization has on the
quality and diversity of rankings in multi page search.
4.1
Multi Page Search Problem
The Multi Page Search (MPS) scenario concerns the rank-
ing of documents over multiple pages of search results [22,
19]. MPS typically models exploratory search queries which
are more likely to lead to multi-query sessions and multi-
page searches [35] (with one study ﬁnding that 27% of all
searches occur over multiple pages [16]).
In this scenario
documents are retrieved for a single query, ranked and then
segregated into pages of M documents. On each page, a user
may examine and click on documents. We assume that the
user will return to the results page and move onto the next
page and we deﬁne a threshold of T pages which the user
will search over. The goal in MPS is to create rankings of
relevant documents across T pages. For the pages following
the ﬁrst, document clicks can be used to personalize search
rankings, a situation analogous to our example in Fig. 1.
We chose this particular problem to apply our dynamic IR
framework to as it exhibits the following beneﬁcial features:
1) it is a DIR problem that is familiar and easy to deﬁne,
2) it is a simple IR scenario where we only have to consider
a single query and a single set of documents, 3) we can use
existing ad hoc ranking and retrieval research to ﬁnd suit-
able implementations for the DIR framework components,
4) we can readily use TREC data collections and relevance
judgments to evaluate our algorithms, and 5) it is naturally
translatable to the PRP and IIR-PRP frameworks. A sim-
ilar analysis of DIR in the session search scenario was also
conducted by Luo et al. [24]
In this scenario, each page of search represents a stage in
our framework, with T the threshold number of pages. We
nominally set T = 2 although a larger number of pages is
feasible and has been studied by Jin et al. [19].
The ac-
tion sequence ⃗at = ⟨at1, . . . , atM⟩represents the ranking of
documents for ranks 1 to M on page t. Before we can fully
implement Eq. (2), we must ﬁrst deﬁne each of its functional
components in the context of MPS.
4.1.1
Expected DCG
The static utility in multi page search is a measure of the
quality of the ranking of documents on each page. As with
ad hoc ranking and retrieval, we can evaluate this using
a metric such as DCG, MAP or ERR. In the absence of

relevance judgments, we can instead ﬁnd the expected metric
value which uses probabilities of relevance instead [33]. In
our application we set the static utility as the expected DCG
function, given by
US(⃗at,⃗rt) =
M
X
i=i
2rati −1 + 2rati −1 log2(2)V ar[rati]
log(i + 1)
(6)
This utility also takes into consideration the variance of the
document’s probability of relevance.
4.1.2
Examination Hypothesis
In multi page search our observations are document clicks,
which we regard as an implicit signal of the relevance of
a document to the user.
Thus, we can utilize the clicks
from previous search pages to update our probability of rel-
evance model and personalize the document rankings for
future pages.
For a ranking of M documents, the observation space O in
MPS for a particular page is the combination of binary click
events for each document in the ranking. We denote this as
the observation vector ⃗o = ⟨o1, . . . , oM⟩where o ∈{0, 1}.
We could na¨ıvely set the observation likelihood to the uni-
form distribution P(o|a, r) =
1
|O| but eye-tracking studies
tell us that this is not the case. Instead, the probability of
a click occurring on a ranked document is dependent on not
only its probability of relevance but also its rank position,
amongst other variables [20].
The probabilistic modeling
of user clicks is an extensive area of IR research and in our
application we use the simplest model, the Examination Hy-
pothesis model [10].
This model supports the eye tracking research by inferring
that the probability of a click on a document in a ranked list
is equal to the product of its probability of relevance and the
bias of its rank position. Thus, the probability of a sequence
of clicks is given by
P(⃗o|⃗at,⃗rt) =
M
Y
i=1
(birati)oi(1 −birati)1−oi
(7)
where bi is a rank bias parameter. In our implementation
we set Eq. (7) as our observation likelihood function and set
bi =
1
log(i+1) which is the discount value used in our expected
DCG utility.
4.1.3
Conditional Multivariate Gaussian Distribution
Once we have a sequence of click observations for a rank-
ing of documents, we can update the probability of relevance
distribution for the remaining documents. Here, we achieve
this by deﬁning the distribution of all the probabilities of rel-
evance for all documents in the collection as a multivariate
Gaussian distribution R ∼N(⃗r, Σ), where R is their collec-
tive random variable, ⃗r the vector of mean relevance scores
and Σ the covariance matrix over the documents. ⃗r may be
set as any relevance score and Σ may be set using document
similarity or other correlation scores [19]. If ⃗r represents a
probability of relevance, then we can set the distribution as
a truncated multivariate Gaussian bounded between 0 and
1. If it is not possible to deﬁne the distribution of a rele-
vance score, then the distribution of the mean of multiple
relevance scoring techniques can be derived, resulting in an
approximately Gaussian distribution that incorporates mul-
tiple signals of relevance. It is this approach we take in our
experiment, where we set ⃗r and Σ as the means and vari-
ances of the retrieval scores from ﬁve well known techniques,
with the diagonal elements from Σ used as variance values
for our utility calculation in Eq. (6).
Modeling the relevance distribution in this way allows us
to conditionally update the probabilities of relevance ⃗r based
on our click observations. For a given rank action ⃗at (which
includes both clicked and non-clicked documents in the rank-
ing), we denote the remaining non-ranked documents as \⃗at
and partition our distribution parameters as
⃗r =
⃗r\⃗at
⃗r⃗a

Σ =

Σ\⃗at\⃗at
Σ\⃗at⃗at
Σ⃗at\⃗at
Σ⃗a⃗a

We can then update the mean relevance scores and covari-
ance matrix for non ranked documents using the formulae
⃗r\⃗at = ⃗r\⃗at + Σ\⃗at⃗atΣ−1
⃗a⃗a (⃗o −⃗r⃗at)
(8)
Σ\⃗at\⃗at = Σ\⃗at\⃗at −Σ\⃗at⃗atΣ−1
⃗at⃗atΣ⃗at\⃗at
and observations ⃗o.
Thus, for given actions and obser-
vations, we can use the functions above to deﬁne a new
conditional multivariate Gaussian distribution of the prob-
ability of relevance of the remaining documents, given as
Rt+1 ∼N(⃗r\⃗at, Σ\⃗at\⃗at|⃗at,⃗o).
For the multi page search
setting, we deﬁne τ(a, r, o) as the relevance update function
in Eq. (8).
4.1.4
Geometric Discount
The ﬁnal component required for our application is the
discount function ω(t). In the multi page scenario, we mea-
sure the utility of a linear sequence of document rankings
rather than the path-based behavior of users. As such, we
adopt the simple discount used in a POMDP, setting ω = λ
(which is eﬀectively setting it as the geometric discount
ω(t) = λt−1 due to the recursion of the dynamic utility).
Here, we can consider ω(t) as the probability of the user
visiting page t. When λ = 0, we assume only the ﬁrst page
will be visited, and when λ = 1 all pages are equally likely
and given equal weight. The optimal setting for λ will vary
depending on the type of searches being performed as well
as the corpus and quality of results.
4.2
DIR-MPS
Now that we have deﬁned each of the functional compo-
nents of the dynamic IR framework for the multi page search
scenario, we present the DIR-MPS algorithm in Algorithm 1.
This algorithm is a direct implementation of the recursive
utility function UD in Eq. (2) that determines the optimal
sequence of document rankings to display for each page.
It is worth noting that Algorithm 1 and the described set-
tings for the DIR framework elements are one such instan-
tiation of the framework in the multi page search scenario.
Our motive in this section is not to develop a state of the
art new ranking technique but rather to demonstrate the
application of the framework to a DIR problem.
4.2.1
Dynamic Utility Approximation
The DIR-MPS algorithm features a number of approxi-
mation techniques that increase its computational eﬃciency
as a way to counteract the inherent complexity of the DIR
framework (discussed further in Section 4.3). Firstly, we re-
duce the action space of potential rankings by employing a
Sequential Ranking Decision policy. That is, for each page

Algorithm 1 The DIR-MPS Algorithm
function DIR-MPS(t,⃗r, A)
if t = T + 1 then return [0, ⟨⟩]
end if
⃗a∗
t = ⟨⟩;⃗a∗
t+1 = ⟨⟩
loop i ←1 to M
▷Sequential Ranking Decision
⃗a = ⃗a∗
t ; u∗= 0
for all a ∈A\⃗a do
⃗at = ⟨⃗a, a⟩
ut = US(⃗at,⃗rt)
▷Eq. (6)
for all ⃗o ∈O do
⃗rt+1 = τ(⃗at,⃗r, o)
▷Eq. (8)
[ut+1,⃗at+1] = DIR-MPS(t + 1,⃗rt+1, A\⃗at)
ut = ut + λ · P(⃗o|⃗at,⃗rt) · ut+1
▷Eq. (7)
end for
if ut > u∗then
u∗= ut;⃗a∗
t = ⃗at;⃗a∗
t+1 = ⃗at+1
end if
end for
end loop
return [u∗, ⟨⃗a∗
t ,⃗a∗
t+1⟩]
end function
we ﬁnd the optimal document to rank at each position one
by one. For example, we set M = 1 and ﬁnd the document
a∗that maximizes US(a, ra). Then we ﬁx this document,
set M = 2 and ﬁnd the next in the sequence that maxi-
mizes US(⟨a∗, a⟩,⃗r⟨a∗,a⟩). Continuing in this fashion allows
us to ﬁnd an approximately optimal ranking for a single
page, one document at a time, greatly reducing the compu-
tational complexity.
A property of the probability distribution given in Eq. (7)
also allows us to greatly reduce the observation space. We
ﬁnd that this distribution follows Zipf’s law, with a few
of the click combinations contributing towards most of the
probability mass. In fact, from our experiments we typically
found that around 15% of the combinations contributed to
95% of the aggregated probability. As such, in our imple-
mentation of DIR-MPS we restrict the observation space
to only the most probable click combinations that cumula-
tively sum to 0.95, trading oﬀthe potential 5% inaccuracy
for speed.
Finally, it can be shown that when ranking over a sin-
gle stage, the expected DCG utility function is maximized
when documents are ranked according to the PRP [33]. We
exploit this to increase the eﬃciency of our algorithm by
ranking the threshold page (where we no longer consider a
future temporal dependency) according to the PRP over the
conditionally updated probabilities of relevance.
4.2.2
IIR-PRP-MPS
In our experiments we directly compare DIR-MPS against
rankings created from the applied PRP and IIR-PRP rank-
ing rules. With the Probability Ranking Principle we can
simply rank documents in decreasing order of the probability
of relevance across T pages. However, the IIR-PRP has no
existing direct application to our scenario. Instead, we use
our deﬁnition of the ranking function ϱ given in Eq. (4) to
create the IIR-PRP-MPS algorithm shown in Algorithm 2.
Here, the sequential ranking rule is also employed to build
up an optimal ranking over all pages, one document at a
Algorithm 2 The IIR-PRP-MPS algorithm
function IIR-PRP-MPS(M, T, λ, A,⃗r)
⃗a∗= ⟨⟩
loop i ←1 to M × T
a∗= argmaxa∈A\⃗a∗ϱ(⟨⃗a∗, a⟩,⃗r, λ)
▷Eq. (4)
⃗a∗= ⟨⃗a∗, a∗⟩
end loop
return ⃗a∗
end function
time, by selecting the document that has the highest ϱ value
for each rank. Thus, there is some dependency on previously
ranked documents, which is not possible in the PRP, but like
the PRP there is no way to take into account user feedback
or update the probabilities of relevance.
4.3
Practical Limitations
The general computational complexity of the optimiza-
tion of UD can be shown to be PSPACE-Complete (through
its connection to POMDPs). For small T and observation
and action spaces this can be reasonable, but typically these
spaces may be impractically large.
For example, an IR task such as information ﬁltering or
music recommendation may operate over potentially inﬁnite
time steps. In these cases the discount factor and thresh-
old T are important. Further, the observation space may
not be as well deﬁned as that in our multi page search
scenario where |O| = 2M, for example, the space of pos-
sible reformulations for a query or 2D gaze positions in eye-
tracking. Finally, the action space can be diﬃcult to opti-
mize over as is the case with DIR-MPS, where the sequential
ranking decision reduces the size of the action space from
O(N!/(N −TM)!) to O(TNM −TM 2) for a collection of
N documents. Our application serves to demonstrate that
such approximations may be needed when working with the
DIR framework, especially given that the optimization of
UD is not guaranteed to be tractable, and an optimal so-
lution may not exist depending on the particular problem
settings.
4.4
Experiment
To gain insight into our application of the dynamic IR
framework in the multi page search scenario, and to com-
pare with the other theoretical frameworks, we conducted an
experiment using the WT10g, AQUAINT and ClueWeb09
datasets, the details of which are included in Table 1. We
chose these collections as they were designed for evaluating
ranking and retrieval algorithms and were easily extended to
the multi page problem. The WT10g dataset allowed us to
test the theoretical frameworks in the standard ad hoc rank-
ing and retrieval environment. The Robust data consists of
diﬃcult to rank ad hoc queries which we hypothesized would
be more likely to require several pages of search results. The
diversity track data allowed us to test our hypothesis that
dynamic optimization leads to increased diversiﬁcation in
ad hoc retrieval. A drawback to using these datasets is that
they lack interaction data, which is not needed when opti-
mizing for probable clicks in the DIR framework, but im-
portant in the interactive setting.
On each collection we retrieved the top 100 documents for
each topic scored using each of the TF-IDF, BM25, Jelinek-
Mercer, Dirichlet and Two-Stage language model retrieval

Table 1: Overview of the three TREC test collections
Name
Task
# Docs
Topics
WT10g
TREC 9 Web
Track
1,692,096
451-500
AQUAINT Robust 2005
1,033,461
50 diﬃcult Ro-
bust 2004 topics
ClueWeb09 Diversity
Task 2009/10
503,903,810 1-100
(461
subtopics)
methods from the Indri1 search engine. We pooled the docu-
ments and subsequently scored them over all the techniques.
This gave us an average of 193 ranked documents per topic
each with 5 relevance score values. After min-max normal-
ization we averaged each score to give us our probability of
relevance vector ⃗r and covariance matrix Σ. The dependen-
cies in this covariance matrix reﬂect the level of agreement
between the diﬀerent retrieval methods rather than direct
correlations between the documents themselves i.e.
simi-
larly ranked documents will be positively correlated with
one another. Finally, we selected those documents that had
the top 30 mean relevance scores. These were then used by
our algorithms to create rankings for two pages of search
results with ten documents on each.
We ranked these documents according to the baseline PRP
approach and also the already described IIR-PRP-MPS and
DIR-MPS algorithms. We also investigated an interactive
version of DIR-MPS (called IIR-MPS) that ranks the ﬁrst
page of results according to the PRP and then optimizes
a ranking for the second page of results by marginalizing
over potential clicks using Eq. (1). We also created a static
version of DIR-MPS (called S-MPS) that removes feedback
from UD entirely to give us the objective function US(⃗a1,⃗r)+
λUS(⃗a2,⃗r). We also investigated ‘perfect click’ variants of
the dynamic (DIR-MPSC) and interactive (IIR-MPSC) al-
gorithms, where we interpret the hidden relevance labels as
clicks on the ﬁrst page of results, giving us the optimal ob-
servation setting and an upper bound on performance for
the second page.
To evaluate the quality of the rankings we measured MAP,
NDCG and ERR for each page. For the DIR-MPS and IIR-
MPS algorithms we actually generate an optimal 2nd page
ranking for every click combination in our observation space,
giving us diﬀerent metrics scores for each. In these cases, the
reported page two metric scores are averages over the page
two scores for all click combination based rankings.
This
highlights an open area for research; the deﬁnition of evalu-
ation metrics for DIR that can take into account all of the
potential rankings in a dynamic system. We also measure
the session-based metrics sDCG (deﬁned in Eq. (5)) and
sAP to evaluate performance over both pages, although it
is worth noting that these metrics were designed for session
search rather than multi page search. Finally, we also mea-
sure α−NDCG [6], Intent-Aware Precision (IA-Precision) [1]
and Intent-Aware ERR (ERR-IA) [4] for scoring the diver-
sity of rankings in the ClueWeb09 collection.
The results of our experiments are shown in Table 2. For
the Web Track and Robust collections, we observe that the
1st page losses of the dynamic techniques (when compared
to the PRP and IIR-PRP-MPS baselines) are made up for
by gains in the second page, signiﬁcantly so on the WT10g
dataset. Nonetheless, in these ad hoc ranking scenarios it is
1http://www.lemurproject.org/indri.php
Table 3: α-DCG, IA-Precision and ERR-IA scores for page
1 and 2 search results from the diversity track data. The
maximum score for each metric on each page is given in
boldface. A 2 indicates that the result is signiﬁcantly better
than the IIR-PRP-MPS baseline score using the Wilcoxon
signed-rank test (p < 0.05).
Page 1
Page 2
Algorithm
α-
DCG
IA-
Prec
ERR-
IA
α-
DCG
IA-
Prec
ERR-
IA
PRP
0.360
0.083 0.239
0.420 0.085
0.294
IIR-PRP-MPS 0.345
0.077
0.230
0.404
0.086
0.269
S-MPS
0.352
0.078
0.233
0.417
0.089 0.280
IIR-MPS
0.360
0.083 0.239
0.377
0.079
0.243
IIR-MPSC
0.379
0.080
0.236
DIR-MPS
0.4032 0.082
0.270
0.400
0.079
0.264
DIR-MPSC
0.386
0.077
0.254
clear that the static PRP and IIR-PRP frameworks are still
very eﬀective.
We see diﬀerent results with the diversity track data. The
metric scores for this data in Table 2 were calculated using
relevance judgments from all subtopics. We see the opposite
relationship between page scores here, with DIR-MPS hav-
ing higher scores for the 1st page and losses in the second
(except for ERR which is signiﬁcantly improved across both
pages). We see further evidence of this with the diversity
metric scores in Table 3, where it is clear that diversiﬁcation
is occurring in the ﬁrst page and less so in the second. This
backs up our intuition (in Fig. 1d) that a dynamic technique
will initially diversify results to improve future rankings, and
also helps explain the losses in performance of the 1st page
in the other datasets (which do not have subtopic relevance
judgments).
The reduced diversity of the 2nd page indi-
cates that it is more tightly focused on the user’s subtopic
preference.
We observe that the diversity task is more suited as an
application of the dynamic IR framework. This is evidenced
by the optimal settings for λ in each collection. For the ad
hoc ranking task in the WT10g and AQUAINT collections,
the setting for λ gives greater weight to the 1st page of
results, rewarding immediately eﬀective rankings. Whereas
in the diversity task, the utility of the 2nd page has a larger
eﬀect on the overall utility, encouraging diversity.
Further to this, the interactive variant scored highly with
session based metrics on the Robust dataset, but otherwise
the static techniques were optimal, even for the diversity
task. This may partly be due to the application of a session-
based metric to the multi page scenario and also the inabil-
ity of the metric to take into account the user interaction.
Finally, we also see that the ‘perfect click’ variants gener-
ally outperform their counterparts (except over the diversity
data), indicating that the 2nd page ranking can be improved
when high quality clicks are observed.
In summary, by its nature the DIR approach to multi-
page search places greater emphasis on diﬀerent stages of
the search task. We ﬁnd that this may not be suited to all
search environments i.e. ad hoc search. In such cases the
static approaches can be more eﬀective. Nonetheless, the
dynamic IR framework has other desirable properties such as
the diversiﬁcation and personalization of results over time.
5.
RELATED WORK

Table 2: NDCG, MAP and ERR scores for pages 1 and 2 of the search results and sAP and sDCG over both pages. Static,
interactive and dynamic algorithms are grouped. The results shown are those for the optimal value of λ in each collection,
found by repeating the experiment for values in the range [0, 1]. The maximum score for each metric on each page is given in
boldface. A 1 or 2 indicates that the result is signiﬁcantly better than the PRP or IIR-PRP-MPS baseline scores respectively
using the Wilcoxon signed-rank test (p < 0.05).
Page 1
Page 2
Both Pages
Collection
Algorithm
NDCG
MAP
ERR
NDCG
MAP
ERR
sAP
sDCG
Web
Track
(WT10g)
λ = 0.5
PRP
0.338
0.167
0.169
0.133
0.025
0.053
0.097
1.326
IIR-PRP-MPS
0.330
0.162
0.162
0.166
0.041
0.078
0.101
1.347
S-MPS
0.295
0.134
0.130
0.226
0.070
0.24212
0.095
1.236
IIR-MPS
0.338
0.167
0.169
0.125
0.025
0.1031
0.097
1.291
IIR-MPSC
0.154
0.040
0.1511
0.102
1.353
DIR-MPS
0.235
0.091
0.092
0.2121
0.0541
0.28912
0.069
1.022
DIR-MPSC
0.2301
0.059
0.29712
0.072
1.027
Robust
(AQUAINT)
λ = 0.5
PRP
0.624
0.107
0.398
0.552
0.061
0.294
0.085
5.735
IIR-PRP-MPS
0.629
0.107
0.398
0.514
0.052
0.288
0.083
5.680
S-MPS
0.608
0.096
0.388
0.595
0.066
0.88712
0.083
5.749
IIR-MPS
0.624
0.107
0.398
0.519
0.050
0.73712
0.081
5.543
IIR-MPSC
0.554
0.057
0.69012
0.084
5.729
DIR-MPS
0.548
0.063
0.304
0.575
0.065
0.65612
0.065
4.921
DIR-MPSC
0.553
0.058
0.69712
0.062
4.909
Diversity
(ClueWeb09)
λ = 0.8
PRP
0.4022
0.0492
0.199
0.476
0.052
0.265
0.0512
1.8832
IIR-PRP-MPS
0.384
0.046
0.193
0.468
0.051
0.257
0.048
1.808
S-MPS
0.388
0.041
0.193
0.465
0.054
0.35812
0.049
1.787
IIR-MPS
0.4022
0.0492
0.199
0.431
0.042
0.35312
0.047
1.783
IIR-MPSC
0.436
0.042
0.34512
0.047
1.787
DIR-MPS
0.4512
0.047
0.2382
0.445
0.042
0.37312
0.046
1.859
DIR-MPSC
0.426
0.037
0.35612
0.044
1.839
Throughout this paper we have presented the dynamic IR
theory within the context of the surrounding literature, so
in this section we cover those areas of the related work not
already discussed.
For instance, the settings of the components in the DIR
framework for multi page search cover a wide area of research
in IR. Firstly, the examination hypothesis model used is just
one of a number of probabilistic click models that could have
been employed, including the click-chain model [13] and even
a POMDP-based model [34].
Other path-based discount
functions have been explored in the literature [36] as well as
other multi-stage utilities and metrics such as Time-Based
Gain [30]. Related work on using Markov chains to measure
the utility of rankings at each time step is a potential method
for evaluating DIR problems [11]. Further to this, the iden-
tiﬁcation of the dynamic IR framework as a POMDP raises
the possibility of using established techniques such as the
Witness algorithm [23] to ﬁnd optimal action policies. Also,
the performance of the PRP under results diversiﬁcation is
well-reported in the static frameworks quantum-PRP [38]
and the portfolio theory of IR [32].
The concept of evaluating for retrieval utility rather than
relevance was proposed by Cooper in 1973 [9] and is ex-
tended to all the frameworks discussed in this paper, where
we aim to maximize some utility function that balances the
costs and beneﬁts of an IR system’s actions. Other work in
this area includes Azzopardi’s [2] work on economic models,
which is itself an extension of the IIR-PRP, and also the
work of Mostafa et al. [25] who had a similar motivation to
this work, where they deﬁned a framework for running user
simulations for information ﬁltering, itself a DIR problem.
Other than the PRP and IIR-PRP, the closest related
works to this one are the following: The application of a
POMDP to multi page search [19], from which many aspects
of our experiments in this paper are derived, including the
problem setting and the probability of relevance distribu-
tion. This paper extends their formulation to a general one
applicable to other DIR problems and explores a diﬀerent
setting for the static utility, observation likelihood and dis-
count, while also linking to static and interactive techniques.
Our experimental time horizon setting of T = 2 is based on
the optimal results found in their work. Finally, the work
on deﬁning the elements of a POMDP in session search [24]
is a close relation to this work, though focusing more on
the testing of particular settings of DIR components in the
session search scenario rather than explicitly gaining an un-
derstanding of the framework and components themselves.
Nonetheless, their work contains an evaluation of algorithms
that fall under the DIR framework including one similar to
DIR-MPS.
This work diﬀers from the literature in that: 1) ours is
the ﬁrst work to deﬁne the characteristics that distinguish
dynamic IR from the other theoretical IR frameworks, 2) our
utility is the generalization of many existing ranking utilities
and incorporates many elements of IR research such as click
models, and 3) we conﬁrm the eﬀectiveness of ours and the
static frameworks in diﬀerent scenarios in our experiments.
6.
CONCLUSION
In this paper we have established a theoretical framework
for Dynamic Information Retrieval.
By contrasting with
static and interactive frameworks, we found three character-
istics that deﬁne dynamic IR systems; user feedback, tem-

poral dependency and an overall goal. This motivated the
derivation of our dynamic utility function UD, which has its
roots in the POMDP formulation. The components of this
utility can be directly implemented using elements from ex-
isting research which we apply in the DIR-MPS algorithm,
an example instantiation designed for the multi page search
problem.
Our experiments conﬁrm that in this scenario,
one of the eﬀects of optimizing for UD is the diversiﬁcation
of search results. Otherwise, we also demonstrate that for
other scenarios the PRP and IIR-PRP frameworks are still
eﬀective.
Like the PRP and IIR-PRP, our framework deﬁnes cer-
tain functional parameters but does not deﬁnitively specify
how to set them. Instead, this work is a point of reference
that can be used for the development of specialized mod-
els and algorithms applied to DIR problems. Through our
application we were able to consider the limitations of the
DIR framework, a result of which is the approximations used
in the DIR-MPS algorithm. Finally, the derivation of a sta-
tionary solution to the DIR Markovian model is an intended
future goal and would be an important result to come from
this work.
7.
REFERENCES
[1] Agrawal, R., Gollapudi, S., Halverson, A., and Ieong, S.
Diversifying search results. WSDM ’09, ACM, pp. 5–14.
[2] Azzopardi, L. Modelling interaction with economic models of
search. SIGIR ’14, ACM, pp. 3–12.
[3] Bellman, R. E. Dynamic Programming. Dover Publications,
2003.
[4] Chapelle, O., Metlzer, D., Zhang, Y., and Grinspan, P.
Expected reciprocal rank for graded relevance. CIKM ’09,
ACM, pp. 621–630.
[5] Chen, H., and Karger, D. R. Less is more: Probabilistic models
for retrieving fewer relevant documents. SIGIR ’06, ACM,
pp. 429–436.
[6] Clarke, C. L., Kolla, M., Cormack, G. V., Vechtomova, O.,
Ashkan, A., B¨uttcher, S., and MacKinnon, I. Novelty and
diversity in information retrieval evaluation. SIGIR ’08, ACM,
pp. 659–666.
[7] Cleverdon, C., and Kean, M. Factors determining the
performance of indexing systems. Aslib Cranﬁeld Research
Project, Cranﬁeld, England, 1968.
[8] Cooper, W. S. The inadequacy of probability of usefulness as a
ranking criterion for retrieval system output. University of
California, Berkeley (1971).
[9] Cooper, W. S. On selecting a measure of retrieval eﬀectiveness.
Journal of the American Society for Information Science 24,
2 (1973), 87–100.
[10] Craswell, N., Zoeter, O., Taylor, M., and Ramsey, B. An
experimental comparison of click position-bias models. WSDM
’08, ACM, pp. 87–94.
[11] Ferrante, M., Ferro, N., and Maistro, M. Injecting user
models and time into precision via Markov chains. SIGIR ’14,
ACM, pp. 597–606.
[12] Fuhr, N. A probability ranking principle for interactive
information retrieval. Inf. Retr. 11, 3 (2008), 251–265.
[13] Guo, F., Liu, C., Kannan, A., Minka, T., Taylor, M., Wang,
Y.-M., and Faloutsos, C. Click chain model in web search.
WWW ’09, ACM, pp. 11–20.
[14] Hersh, W., Turpin, A., Price, S., Chan, B., Kramer, D.,
Sacherek, L., and Olson, D. Do batch and user evaluations
give the same results? SIGIR ’00, ACM, pp. 17–24.
[15] Jambor, T., Wang, J., and Lathia, N. Using control theory for
stable and eﬃcient recommender systems. WWW ’12, ACM,
pp. 11–20.
[16] Jansen, B. J., and Spink, A. How are we searching the world
wide web?: A comparison of nine search engine transaction
logs. Inf. Process. Manage. 42, 1 (2006), 248–263.
[17] Jansen, B. J., Spink, A., and Pedersen, J. A temporal
comparison of AltaVista web searching: Research articles. J.
Am. Soc. Inf. Sci. Technol. 56, 6 (2005), 559–570.
[18] J¨arvelin, K., Price, S. L., Delcambre, L. M. L., and Nielsen,
M. L. Discounted cumulated gain based evaluation of
multiple-query IR sessions. ECIR’08, Springer-Verlag, pp. 4–15.
[19] Jin, X., Sloan, M., and Wang, J. Interactive exploratory search
for multi page search results. In WWW ’13 (2013),
pp. 655–666.
[20] Joachims, T., Granka, L., Pan, B., Hembrooke, H., Radlinski,
F., and Gay, G. Evaluating the accuracy of implicit feedback
from clicks and query reformulations in web search. ACM
Trans. Inf. Syst. 25, 2 (2007).
[21] Kanoulas, E., Carterette, B., Clough, P. D., and Sanderson,
M. Evaluating multi-query sessions. SIGIR ’11, ACM,
pp. 1053–1062.
[22] Kim, J. Y., Cramer, M., Teevan, J., and Lagun, D.
Understanding how people interact with web search results that
change in real-time using implicit feedback. CIKM ’13, ACM,
pp. 2321–2326.
[23] Littman, M. L. The witness algorithm: Solving partially
observable markov decision processes. Tech. rep., 1994.
[24] Luo, J., Zhang, S., Dong, X., and Yang, H. Designing states,
actions, and rewards for using POMDP in session search. In
Advances in Information Retrieval, vol. 9022 of Lecture Notes
in Computer Science. Springer International Publishing, 2015,
pp. 526–537.
[25] Mostafa, J., Mukhopadhyay, S., and Palakal, M. Simulation
studies of diﬀerent dimensions of users’ interests and their
impact on user modeling and information ﬁltering. Information
Retrieval 6, 2 (2003), 199–223.
[26] Robertson, S. E. The Probability Ranking Principle in IR.
Journal of Documentation 33, 4 (1977), 294–304.
[27] Rocchio, J. Relevance Feedback in Information Retrieval.
1971, pp. 313–323.
[28] Ruthven, I. Interactive information retrieval. ARIST 42, 1
(2008), 43–91.
[29] Sloan, M., Yang, H., and Wang, J. A term-based methodology
for query reformulation understanding. Information Retrieval
Journal 18, 2 (2015), 145–165.
[30] Smucker, M. D., and Clarke, C. L. Time-based calibration of
eﬀectiveness measures. SIGIR ’12, ACM, pp. 95–104.
[31] Sondik, E. The optimal control of partially observable markov
processes over the inﬁnite horizon: Discounted cost. Operations
Research 26, 2 (1978), 282–304.
[32] Wang, J., and Zhu, J. Portfolio theory of information retrieval.
SIGIR’ 09, ACM, pp. 115–122.
[33] Wang, J., and Zhu, J. On statistical analysis and optimization
of information retrieval eﬀectiveness metrics. SIGIR ’10,
pp. 226–233.
[34] Wang, K., Gloy, N., and Li, X. Inferring search behaviors using
partially observable markov (POM) model. WSDM ’10, ACM,
pp. 211–220.
[35] White, R., White, R., and Roth, R. Exploratory Search:
Beyond the Query-Response Paradigm. Synthesis Lectures on
Information Concepts, Retrieval, and Services Series. Morgan &
Claypool, 2009.
[36] White, R. W., Ruthven, I., Jose, J. M., and Rijsbergen, C.
J. V. Evaluating implicit feedback models using searcher
simulations. ACM Trans. Inf. Syst. 23, 3 (2005), 325–361.
[37] Yang, Y., and Lad, A. Modeling expected utility of
multi-session information distillation. In Advances in
Information Retrieval Theory, vol. 5766 of Lecture Notes in
Computer Science. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2009,
pp. 164–175.
[38] Zuccon, G., Azzopardi, L., and van Rijsbergen, K. The
quantum probability ranking principle for information retrieval.
In Advances in Information Retrieval Theory, vol. 5766.
Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2009, pp. 232–240.