Journal of Modern Technology and Engineering
Vol.10, No.1, 2025, pp.42-56
https://doi.org/10.62476/jmte.10142
RETRIEVAL-AUGMENTED GENERATION: ARCHITECTURE,
TECHNIQUES, AND EVALUATIONS
ID S¸evket Polan∗
Ege University, Izmir, T¨urkiye
Abstract. Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) is an innovative approach that enables large language mod-
els to produce more accurate and up-to-date texts by being augmented with external information sources. RAG
models operate by combining information retrieval and text generation modules. The information retrieval mod-
ule extracts the required data from external sources, while the text generation module uses this information to
produce a response. The architecture of RAG, along with the roles of information retrieval techniques, embed-
ded re-presentation methods, and vector databases, is explored in detail in the paper. Strategies for context
enrichment with large language models, memory mechanisms, and information synthesis processes are discussed,
along with the optimization of RAG systems. Techniques employed to enhance the accuracy and consistency of
text generation, evaluation metrics, and the challenges encountered in developing RAG-based systems are also
addressed. The paper comprehensively presents the prospects and potential areas of development for RAG in
artiﬁcial intelligence and natural language processing.
Keywords: Retrieval-Augmented Generation, RAG, large language models, generative artiﬁcial intelligence.
Corresponding author: S¸evket, Polan, Ege University, Izmir, T¨urkiye, e-mail: sevket.polan@ege.edu.tr
Received: 3 September 2024; Revised: 23 December 2024;
Accepted: 12 January 2025;
Published: 30 April 2025.
1
Introduction
RAG is an innovative approach that enables large language models to generate more accurate
and up-to-date texts by integrating external information sources. Since contemporary language
models are limited to their training data, they may provide outdated information over time
or generate outputs known as ”hallucinations,” which are not grounded in reality (Gao et al.,
2023). To address these issues, RAG combines the processes of information retrieval and text
generation, allowing the language model to directly obtain relevant and reliable content from an
external knowledge source and base its responses on this information. Particularly in areas such
as knowledge-based question-answering systems, text summarization, and dialogue models, RAG
helps mitigate the limitations of large language models, enhancing both accuracy and reliability.
RAG models consist of two primary components: the information retrieval module and the
text generation module. The information retrieval module enables the model to extract relevant
information from large knowledge bases, documents, or vector databases. During this process,
embedding models are employed to match queries with the most semantically relevant content.
Subsequently, the text generation module integrates the retrieved information with the large
language model to generate an appropriate response. Compared to traditional pre-trained text
generation models, RAG streamlines the information update process, oﬀering a structure that
is more easily updatable, scalable, and cost-eﬃcient. This approach enhances the eﬃciency of
large language models by reducing the need for frequent retraining (Yu, 2022).
42

S¸. POLAN: RETRIEVAL-AUGMENTED GENERATION: ARCHITECTURE...
This paper will examine the RAG architecture and its components in detail, investigating
information retrieval techniques, embedding methods, and the role of vector databases. Context
enrichment strategies with large language models, memory mechanisms, and information synthe-
sis processes will be explained, discussing how RAG systems can be optimized. Techniques used
to enhance the accuracy and consistency of text generation, such as ﬁne-tuning and adaptation
mechanisms, will be evaluated in the context of academic and industrial applications. Addi-
tionally, performance factors such as computational costs and hardware requirements of RAG
models will be addressed, highlighting critical points to consider in the model development pro-
cess. Evaluation metrics used to measure the eﬀectiveness of RAG systems will be outlined,
with a discussion on the applicability of metrics such as precision, recall, normalized cumulative
gain (NDCG), RAGAS, ROUGE, BLEU, and BERTScore for RAG models. The use of these
metrics to improve the accuracy and reliability of model outputs will be analyzed. Furthermore,
the key challenges encountered in developing RAG-based systems and current research trends
in this area will be assessed. A comprehensive discussion will be presented on the future role of
the RAG approach in artiﬁcial intelligence and natural language processing, potential areas of
development, and application scenarios.
2
RAG Architecture and Components
The RAG architecture consists of a two-stage structure, integrating a retrieval component with
a text-generating language model.
In the ﬁrst stage, the information retrieval module ﬁnds
text fragments related to the query from external information sources. In the second stage,
the generation module uses the retrieved contextual information to produce the ﬁnal response
(Khattab et al., 2022). When we include data preprocessing for this architecture, the entire
process typically consists of three steps:
Figure 1: Data preprocessing
Indexing: Documents from external information sources are divided into small chunks
(paragraphs or sentence blocks), with each chunk represented in an embedded vector space, and
these vectors are stored in a vector database. This step is critical for enabling fast similarity
searches in the future. For example, texts can be converted into vectors using a BERT-based
model and stored in a vector database like FAISS. Such a vector indexing infrastructure enables
meaningful similarity searches even with billions of data points.
43

JOURNAL OF MODERN TECHNOLOGY AND ENGINEERING, V.10, N.1, 2025
Figure 2: RAG pipeline
Retrieval: When a user query is received, the same embedding model is applied to the
query to obtain the query vector. Then, the vector database is quickly searched for the vectors
most similar to the query, and the top k most relevant text chunks (e.g., the ﬁrst 5-10 most
similar paragraphs) are retrieved. The similarity measure typically used in this step is cosine
similarity, and the accuracy of the results largely depends on the quality of the embedding model
used. For example, the similarity between a query vector and document vectors is computed,
and the highest-scoring chunks are selected as context. The retrieved chunks are expected to be
truly relevant to the query and contribute to the ﬁnal response.
Algorithm 1: RAG Pipeline Pseudocode
1: Input: Query Q
2: Output: Response R
3: Step 1: Create Vector Database
4: Create a vector database from the dataset using proper embedding of the LLM model
5: D ←Dataset
6: Denc ←Encode(D)
▷Convert the dataset into vector representations using the LLM’s
embedding function
7: Step 2: Embed Query
8: Embed the Query for vector similarity search
9: Qenc ←Embed(Q)
▷Convert the query into a vector representation
10: Step 3: Vector Search
11: Rank chunks (document parts) based on relevance to Q using vector similarity search on
embedded data and retrieve most similar n chunks
12: Dranked ←RankChunks(Qenc, Denc)
▷Rank chunks based on the similarity between query
and dataset vectors
13: C ←RetrieveChunks(Dranked)
▷Retrieve the top-ranked chunks
14: Step 4: Generate Response
15: Generate a response using LLM with the most similar chunks, system prompt, and user
query
16: R ←GenerateResponse(Q, C)
▷Pass the query and relevant chunks to the LLM for
response generation
17: Step 5: Output Response
18: Display the response along with relevant document parts for responding to the query
19: Output: R
▷Return the generated response along with the relevant document sections
Generation: In the ﬁnal stage, the original user query and the retrieved relevant text chunks
are combined and fed into the language model, enabling the model to generate a response based
44

S¸. POLAN: RETRIEVAL-AUGMENTED GENERATION: ARCHITECTURE...
on this expanded context.
The large language model (e.g., a GPT-based model) uses both
the internally learned information from its parameters and the externally provided up-to-date
information to generate a response that is appropriate and reasoned about the user’s question.
This allows the model to incorporate current or domain-speciﬁc knowledge that may not be
present in its training data into its response.
This architecture fundamentally operates in a sequential ”retrieve-and-read” manner and
has become a standard approach today (Es et al., 2024). While a large language model such
as ChatGPT cannot independently answer questions about recent events, the RAG approach
bridges this gap by providing the model with external, up-to-date articles. This enables the
model to generate more accurate responses based on current information (Gao et al., 2023).
Compared to models that rely solely on parametric knowledge, this method not only enhances
the accuracy of responses but also facilitates the traceability of model outputs. Speciﬁcally,
RAG ensures source attribution by presenting the textual sources that support its responses,
thereby making it possible to determine where the model obtained its information (Ram et al.,
2023). In this regard, RAG adds transparency to generative models and is considered crucial
for developing reliable real-world systems.
Early implementations of the RAG architecture primarily focused on retrieving information
from a single large text collection. For instance, in original open-domain question-answering
studies, the model retrieved relevant articles solely from a knowledge base such as Wikipedia
before generating a response.
However, retrieving information from a single source can be
inherently limited due to gaps or biases within that source.
Recent research has sought to
enrich RAG systems by retrieving information from heterogeneous sources, including multiple
databases, memory structures, and even knowledge graphs. By doing so, models can generate
more comprehensive and reliable responses by leveraging diﬀerent types of data (e.g., text,
tables, graphs).
A RAG system, for example, can simultaneously retrieve relevant passages
from a document and a knowledge graph, integrating both sources to construct a more coherent
and contextually accurate response.
2.1
Retrieval Techniques
The retrieval step in RAG processes is a critical component for the system’s success.
The
primary objective of this step is to extract the most relevant information from a vast knowledge
corpus with high accuracy in response to a user query. Currently, two fundamental retrieval
approaches are utilized in RAG systems: (1) traditional keyword-based search methods (e.g.,
indexing algorithms such as BM25) and (2) embedding-based dense retrieval techniques.
Traditional search methods represent queries and documents based on term frequencies. For
instance, the BM25 algorithm computes a relevance score by considering the frequency of query
terms in the document and statistical measures such as TF-IDF. These methods are particularly
eﬃcient for queries that contain exact matching keywords; however, their performance declines
in cases involving synonyms or paraphrasing.
On the other hand, dense retrieval methods represent each sentence or paragraph as a vector
(embedding) in a semantic space and perform searches based on the similarity between the
query vector and document vectors. This approach excels at identifying semantically relevant
content even in the absence of exact word matches. For example, in a RAG system, a BERT-
based embedding model can be employed to generate vector representations for queries and all
sentences in the database. The system then retrieves the most relevant texts by identifying
vectors with the highest cosine similarity to the query vector. Consequently, the model can
capture content that conveys the same meaning despite being expressed in diﬀerent words.
Vector databases play a crucial role in enabling searches using embedding representations.
These databases are specialized systems optimized for eﬃciently storing high-dimensional vec-
tors and performing similarity searches among them. In recent years, several vector database
management systems (VDBMS) have been developed, including FAISS, Milvus, Weaviate, and
45

JOURNAL OF MODERN TECHNOLOGY AND ENGINEERING, V.10, N.1, 2025
Pinecone. These systems are capable of conducting nearest-neighbor searches among billions of
vectors within milliseconds. For instance, a RAG application leveraging Pinecone or Weaviate
can store the vector representations of an entire encyclopedia and rapidly return the closest
neighbor vectors to a given query (Wang et al., 2025). Such infrastructures have signiﬁcantly
enhanced the scalability of RAG systems, making real-time searches across massive knowledge
repositories feasible.
An essential consideration in information retrieval techniques is the ranking and ﬁltering
of results. To prioritize the most relevant documents among the retrieved results, re-ranking
algorithms are frequently employed. For example, in an initial retrieval step, a dense search
method may return 100 paragraphs, which are then re-evaluated using a BERT-based cross-
encoder model to select the top 5 paragraphs.
This multi-stage retrieval strategy improves
retrieval accuracy, ensuring that the language model is provided with genuinely useful informa-
tion. Empirical studies have demonstrated that such hierarchical retrieval approaches enhance
RAG performance (Chen et al., 2024; Miao et al., 2024; Wu et al., 2024).
Nonetheless, the retrieval component faces several challenges. Balancing precision and recall
is often diﬃcult; retrieving an excessive number of texts may introduce irrelevant information
(low precision), while retrieving too few may omit crucial details (low recall). In practice, the
retrieval phase may occasionally return passages that are only partially relevant or entirely un-
related to the query. This issue can lead to the language model being supplied with unnecessary
or incorrect information. For instance, if a RAG system fails to retrieve a sentence containing
critical information (recall error), the generated response will be incomplete. Conversely, if an
irrelevant sentence is included as context (low precision), the model may produce extraneous de-
tails or erroneous outputs. To mitigate these challenges, researchers have explored optimization
techniques such as query generalization/narrowing, query expansion, and result set aggregation
(Gao et al., 2023). For example, rewriting the query before retrieval to achieve better search
results or ﬁltering retrieved results post-retrieval to retain only critical sentences are among the
strategies employed. Information retrieval techniques in RAG systems integrate both classical
search approaches and modern deep learning-based dense retrieval methods. The intelligent
utilization of embedding models and vector databases is a fundamental determinant of RAG’s
eﬀectiveness. A RAG system capable of retrieving the right information at the right moment
eﬀectively extends the boundaries of language models, equipping them with up-to-date and
comprehensive knowledge.
2.2
Embedding Models and Vector Databases
In RAG approaches, embedding models are fundamental components that generate numerical
vector representations for both user queries and texts stored in the database. These models en-
able the semantic content of texts to be expressed as high-dimensional vectors, allowing semantic
similarity to be calculated as geometric proximity. For instance, a sentence can be represented
as a point in a 768-dimensional vector space using a model such as BERT or RoBERTa. As a
result, the vector of a question asking about city populations would be positioned close in space
to the vector of a sentence containing the information “The population of Ankara is 5.6 million.”
Embedding models can be considered the ”brain” of a RAG system, capturing semantic
meaning. The stronger these models are, the more accurate the retrieval results will be. In
recent years, sentence-level embedding models such as Sentence-BERT and embedding versions
of large language models like OpenAI’s ada-002 have become widespread. These models, trained
on millions of sentences, map semantically similar sentences to closely related vectors.
For
example, even though the question “When was the COVID vaccine developed?” and the sentence
“The COVID-19 vaccine was developed in 2020” do not share identical words, they contain a
similar topic and thus generate similar vectors.
Once embedding representations are obtained, vector databases come into play for storing
and searching them. Unlike traditional relational databases, vector databases index data within
46

S¸. POLAN: RETRIEVAL-AUGMENTED GENERATION: ARCHITECTURE...
a geometric space. These systems are optimized to solve the nearest neighbor search problem at
a massive scale. Finding the closest 100 vectors among millions during a search can be executed
extremely quickly through specialized algorithms (such as LSH and HNSW) and data structures.
Modern vector databases form the backbone of RAG applications. Open-source VDBMS
systems like Weaviate and Qdrant, or cloud-based services like Pinecone, provide developers
with scalable embedding search capabilities. These systems act as the external memory of large
language models, instantly retrieving the necessary information. As Wang et al. (2025) point
out, vector databases have become critical infrastructure for advanced LLM applications like
RAG. For instance, searching a database containing 2 trillion tokens from hundreds of millions
of articles (as seen in DeepMind’s RETRO study) was only made possible through eﬃcient
vector indexing and compression techniques. Borgeaud et al. (2022) demonstrated the power
of embedding representations and vector databases in their Retrieval-Enhanced Transformer
(RETRO) model, achieving GPT-3-level performance with a model 25 times smaller by searching
within a dataset of 2 trillion tokens.
The interaction between embedding models and vector databases is one of the key success
factors of RAG. When designing a RAG system, careful consideration must be given to selecting
the appropriate embedding model and determining how vectors will be stored. Additionally,
techniques such as clustering, dimensionality reduction, or quantization can be applied to opti-
mize the vector space. For example, 768-dimensional vectors can be reduced to 256 dimensions
to save memory and increase speed, or suitable quantization methods can be used to minimize
memory usage while maintaining search accuracy.
Embedding representations serve as tools that “teach” external knowledge to language mod-
els in a meaningful way, while vector databases act as intelligent memory banks that store
and retrieve this knowledge eﬃciently. In RAG processes, the compatibility between these two
elements determines both the speed and accuracy performance of the system.
2.3
Large Language Models and Context Augmentation
In RAG systems, the LLM is the component that processes a context enriched with external
information and generates the ﬁnal textual output. At this stage, the model combines both the
internal knowledge embedded in its learned parameters and the external information provided
by the retrieval module to answer the user’s query.
Context enrichment involves not only
incorporating the user’s query but also relevant supplementary information into the LLM’s input.
This approach enables the model to be augmented with information it may not independently
possess or that is not contained within its learned parameters. For instance, if a model like
ChatGPT was trained up until 2024, and a question is posed about an event occurring in
2025, the model would be unable to provide an accurate response. However, through the RAG
approach, if news articles regarding the event are injected into the model’s context, the model
can respond based on current information. As Gao et al. (2023) stated, this methodology allows
LLMs to access up-to-date knowledge, thereby addressing the limitation of relying solely on
training data.
During the context enrichment process, the external information presented to the model
must be in a format comprehensible to the model and provided in the appropriate quantity.
Typically, the retrieved documents are incorporated directly as text fragments into the prompt.
For example:
Query: [your query here]
Context: [the provided paragraph]
Response: [the generated response here]
When such an introduction is prepared, the language model can use this context to generate
a response. Shi et al. (2024) demonstrated the power of this approach in their work, REPLUG.
47

JOURNAL OF MODERN TECHNOLOGY AND ENGINEERING, V.10, N.1, 2025
REPLUG signiﬁcantly improved performance by simply adding external documents to the lan-
guage model (such as GPT-3) without making any architectural changes. They optimized the
retrieval module using the outputs produced by the model, which resulted in a 6.3% improve-
ment in GPT-3’s language modeling performance. This result highlights the eﬀectiveness of
augmenting LLMs with external context.
Another beneﬁt of context enrichment is that it reduces the hallucination rate in language
model responses. When the model relies on trustworthy text in front of it rather than attempting
to recall information from its parameters, the accuracy of the response increases. Mallen et
al. (2023) observed in their experiments that large language models struggle with unpopular
(rare) information, but when supported with external information, they overcome this diﬃculty.
Especially in areas like lesser-known historical events or speciﬁc technical details, where the
likelihood of such topics being contained within the model’s parameters is low, the RAG approach
enables the model to “remember” from the external world. This enhances the reliability of the
response.
However, feeding the model with excessive or unnecessary information is not ideal. Due
to context length limitations, LLMs can suﬀer performance degradation when processing too
much text. A study revealed that language models struggle to use information in the middle of
very long inputs. Liu et al. (2023), in their research titled “Lost in the Middle,” demonstrated
that models are more sensitive to information at the beginning and end of long contexts and
may neglect the information in the middle. Therefore, it is crucial for the context provided
in RAG systems to be selective and concise. The retrieved fragments should include only the
critical sentences necessary to answer the question and be free from unnecessary details. Some
approaches opt to ﬁrst select relevant sentences from the context and present only those, allowing
the model to work with focused attention rather than distributed attention.
Context enrichment is also used in multi-step reasoning problems. For example, in an indirect
question like “First, X happened, then Y occurred; what is the cause of Y?” the model needs
to combine information from multiple steps. In such cases, RAG allows the model to update
the context step by step, enabling it to conclude multiple retrieval-generation cycles. Khattab
et al. (2022) introduced the Demonstrate-Search-Predict (DSP) method, which solves complex
problems by interacting with the LLM with the search module in a sequential program. For
instance, the model ﬁrst performs a “demonstrate” step to break down the question into sub-
parts, then searches for each part, and ﬁnally generates an answer by combining the results.
This approach allows the model to answer diﬃcult questions more reliably, which it might
not be able to solve in a single pass.Enriching large language models’ contexts with external
information forms the foundation of RAG. This enables LLMs to access both up-to-date and
specialized information.
As the accuracy and reliability of the model’s output increase, the
source of the output can also be made available when needed. The eﬀective use of context is
one of the most important success criteria for RAG systems, and when applied correctly, it can
signiﬁcantly enhance the performance of the language model.
2.4
Large Language Models and Context Augmentation
The ﬁnal stage in RAG processes is the text generation phase, where a LLM produces a ﬁnal
response based on the retrieved context. At this stage, the model processes the user’s query
alongside the provided supplementary information to generate a coherent and accurate response.
The quality of the generated output is contingent upon both the model’s intrinsic capabilities and
the relevance of the retrieved context. In the context of RAG, various optimization techniques
have been developed to enhance the eﬀectiveness of this stage.
The primary objective is to ensure that the model’s response maintains high levels of accuracy
and consistency. Eﬀective utilization of the retrieved context plays a critical role in achieving this
goal. Ideally, the model should articulate the information from the provided sources in its own
words without diverging from the original content. However, there are instances where the model
48

S¸. POLAN: RETRIEVAL-AUGMENTED GENERATION: ARCHITECTURE...
may misinterpret details or integrate unrelated information. For example, if the model is asked,
“What is the capital of France?” while being provided with an irrelevant historical account of
Paris, it may generate a response discussing the city’s history rather than directly answering the
query. To mitigate such issues, researchers implement various control and balancing mechanisms
to reﬁne the model’s outputs.
One prominent optimization approach involves jointly training the retrieval and generation
modules. Traditionally, search models and language models are optimized separately, yet studies
such as the original work on RAG by Lewis et al. (2020) have explored methodologies that train
these two components together toward a shared objective. However, given the computational
constraints associated with large-scale language models, this approach is not always practical.
Consequently, alternative strategies have been investigated to enhance the synergy between
retrievers and generators.
For instance, the REPLUG method enhances the retriever model using reverse feedback from
the language model’s outputs. Here, the LLM identiﬁes the documents that best support its re-
sponses, and the retriever model learns from these preferences to improve future retrievals. This
method signiﬁcantly enhances the quality of the contextual information fed into the generation
stage, thereby improving overall model performance.
Similarly, the Augmentation-Adapted Retriever (AAR) approach aims to provide a retriever
model that generalizes across diﬀerent language models. Yu et al. (2024) trained a retriever
based on the preferences of a well-established language model and applied it to larger, immutable
models (i.e., frozen models). This strategy allows the retriever to be ﬁne-tuned on a smaller
model while subsequently optimizing the zero-shot performance of a larger model. Notably, this
approach optimizes the retriever without necessitating any modiﬁcations or ﬁne-tuning of the
language model itself, demonstrating an eﬃcient means of enhancing text generation quality.
Another technique used to improve text generation is iterative reﬁnement, wherein the model
iteratively updates its responses based on feedback. If an initial response fails to meet quality
expectations, the model can reformulate the question or modify its generated answer before
re-engaging in the RAG cycle. This method is particularly eﬀective for open-ended and complex
queries.
Within the literature, self-ask (where the model identiﬁes gaps in its response and
queries itself) and self-checking (where the model veriﬁes its own answer) have been explored
(Khattab et al., 2022). For example, under the DSP framework, a model may initially draft a
partial response, identify missing elements, retrieve additional information, and reﬁne its ﬁnal
answer accordingly. This iterative reﬁnement process is particularly beneﬁcial for multi-hop
reasoning tasks, ensuring that essential information is incorporated into the response.
To enhance factual accuracy in generated text, post-veriﬁcation mechanisms can also be
integrated into the generation phase. A notable example is SelfCheckGPT (Manakul et al.,
2023), which employs the language model itself to validate its own responses. In a similar vein,
FactScore, developed by Min et al. (2023), evaluates long-form responses by segmenting them
into atomic propositions and assessing whether each claim is supported by credible sources. This
approach has revealed that even state-of-the-art language models, such as ChatGPT, exhibit
factually accurate sentence rates of approximately 58% in biographical texts. These ﬁndings
underscore the need for continued advancements in veriﬁcation methodologies to further reduce
the risk of factual inaccuracies.
Ultimately, optimizations in the text generation phase signiﬁcantly inﬂuence the overall per-
formance of RAG systems. Enhancing the alignment between retrieval and generation modules,
determining when and how much external information is required (e.g., direct answers for sim-
ple queries versus multi-step retrieval for complex ones) (Jeong et al., 2024), and integrating
veriﬁcation mechanisms remain focal points of ongoing research. The overarching goal of these
optimizations is to minimize errors while producing highly informative and factually reliable re-
sponses. Consequently, RAG systems continue to evolve through advancements in both retrieval
and generation components to achieve this objective.
49

JOURNAL OF MODERN TECHNOLOGY AND ENGINEERING, V.10, N.1, 2025
3
Evaluation Metrics and Criteria
Evaluating the performance of RAG systems is inherently more complex compared to traditional
language model assessments. This complexity arises from the fact that the eﬀectiveness of RAG
systems depends on both the retrieval and generation components (Es et al., 2024). Conse-
quently, evaluation processes incorporate metrics that assess these two components separately
and in combination.
For the retrieval phase, standard metrics commonly used in the ﬁeld of information retrieval
(IR) are applied. Precision measures the proportion of retrieved results that are relevant, while
recall quantiﬁes the proportion of relevant results that have been successfully retrieved. For
instance, if a RAG system retrieves 10 documents and 8 of them contain useful information
related to the query, the precision is 80%.
If there were 5 relevant documents in total and
the system retrieved 4 of them, the recall would be calculated as 80%. Other metrics such as
Top-n Precision, Mean Average Precision (MAP), and Normalized Discounted Cumulative Gain
(NDCG) are also employed to evaluate the ranked retrieval performance. In particular, NDCG
measures how well the retrieved documents are ordered by relevance, indicating the system’s
ability to prioritize the most pertinent documents at the top. Achieving high relevance and
coverage in the retrieval module is crucial for ensuring that the model is provided with accurate
and comprehensive contextual information.
The evaluation of the generation phase, on the other hand, relies on traditional text gener-
ation metrics. If the RAG system is tested on a dataset with reference answers, the appropri-
ateness of the generated responses can be numerically measured using metrics such as ROUGE
and BLEU. For example, ROUGE metrics assess the overlap between the generated response
and the reference response based on n-grams, while BLEU, widely used in machine translation,
evaluates precision based on n-gram matches between the generated text and the reference. A
high BLEU or ROUGE score suggests that the model’s output closely aligns with the refer-
ence expressions. However, these metrics do not inherently capture semantic meaning, as they
rely on exact word overlaps. Consequently, they may fail to properly assess responses that are
paraphrased or expressed diﬀerently but hold the same meaning.
To address this limitation, BERTScore was developed as an alternative evaluation metric that
considers semantic similarity. BERTScore compares the embeddings of words in the generated
text with those in the reference text, allowing for a more nuanced assessment of meaning. For
instance, the sentences ”The city was very crowded” and ”The population density in the city was
high” may receive a high similarity score with BERTScore, whereas traditional word-overlap-
based metrics would yield a lower score. Given this advantage, BERTScore is frequently utilized
in evaluating RAG-generated outputs to ensure a more meaning-focused assessment.
In some cases, reference answers may not be available for evaluating RAG systems, partic-
ularly in open-ended questions or broad information-seeking tasks. To address such scenarios,
frameworks like RAGAS (Retrieval-Augmented Generation Assessment) have been introduced.
Proposed in 2023, RAGAS oﬀers a suite of metrics speciﬁcally designed to evaluate RAG systems
without requiring reference answers. This framework assesses multiple dimensions, including the
relevance of the retrieved context, the accuracy of the model’s utilization of this context, and
the coherence and ﬂuency of the generated response. RAGAS employs sub-metrics to determine
whether the retrieved passages are genuinely relevant to the query and whether the generated
response remains faithful to the provided context. By doing so, it enables a structured eval-
uation of diﬀerent aspects of RAG performance without necessitating human-labeled reference
responses.
As emphasized by Yu et al. (2024) in their comprehensive evaluation study, assessing RAG
systems is a multi-faceted challenge. To evaluate a RAG-generated response, several key ques-
tions should be considered:
(1) Relevance: Has the model retrieved the correct and relevant information?
(2) Accuracy: Does the response contain the necessary information, and is it factually correct?
50

S¸. POLAN: RETRIEVAL-AUGMENTED GENERATION: ARCHITECTURE...
(3) Faithfulness: Does the response remain true to the provided context and factual knowledge?
For instance, if a model generates a response that includes details absent from the retrieved
context, this would indicate low faithfulness, meaning the system is prone to hallucination.
Even if the response appears superﬁcially relevant, it may be penalized in evaluation if it lacks
veriﬁable support. To systematically assess factual consistency, FactScore has been introduced
as a metric that veriﬁes whether each factual statement in the generated response is backed by
a reliable source.
Some evaluation frameworks incorporate human feedback or model-based critics into the as-
sessment process. For example, LLMs can serve as evaluators, where a strong language model is
provided with the query, response, and original context and is asked: ”Is this response accurate,
complete, or biased?”. Studies employing GPT-4 as an evaluator have reported that this ap-
proach captures subtleties missed by traditional automated metrics. While such methods may
not be entirely error-free, they oﬀer a more comprehensive assessment compared to conventional
evaluation techniques.
Evaluating RAG systems requires a multi-metric approach that combines both retrieval and
generation performance assessments. Success is not merely about achieving a high ROUGE
score; rather, it entails producing responses that are grounded in reliable sources, relevant to
the query, and factually accurate. Accordingly, rigorous evaluation protocols are being developed
to holistically measure both retrieval and generation eﬀectiveness. In the future, establishing
a standardized RAG evaluation framework will signiﬁcantly enhance the ability to compare
diﬀerent systems and methodologies.
4
Challenges Encountered
RAG systems are an innovative approach that combines information retrieval and language
generation components to enable language models to produce more accurate and consistent
responses. These systems allow the model to generate more reliable results by leveraging external
data sources. However, the integration of these two modules introduces various technical and
practical challenges. This section outlines the main challenges faced by RAG systems, along
with brief explanations of each.
51

JOURNAL OF MODERN TECHNOLOGY AND ENGINEERING, V.10, N.1, 2025
Table 1. Challenges of Retrieval-Augmented Generation Systems
Category
Challenge
Description
Retrieval Module
Retrieval of irrelevant
content
The system may retrieve contextually unrelated
results due to lexical similarity, leading to incorrect
or oﬀ-topic answers.
Missing essential information
If the key sentence needed to answer a question
isn’t retrieved, the model can’t produce a correct
response (low recall).
Scalability and latency issues
Searching through large datasets increases memory
usage and slows down retrieval, which is critical for
real-time applications.
Dynamic data indexing
Continuously updating databases require reindexing
or advanced strategies to eﬃciently retrieve new
information.
Generation Module
Hallucination problem
When the retrieved context is incomplete or
incorrect, the model may fabricate plausible but
false information.
Lack of faithfulness to
context
The model may misinterpret or confuse contextual
details, especially in long or complex documents.
Diﬃculty in integrating
conﬂicting information
Conﬂicting details from multiple sources (e.g.,
diﬀering birth years) may result in inconsistent or
fragmented answers.
Loss of information in long
contexts
Models often ignore or poorly process middle
sections in long inputs, even if critical information
is present there (”Lost in the Middle” issue).
Alignment & Integration
Style mismatch between IR
and NLG components
The language style of retrieved texts may not align
with the model’s training, reducing understanding
and generation quality.
Format mismatch
Retrieved information may not be in a format easily
usable by the language model (e.g., extracting a
number for a ”how many?” question).
Computational cost
RAG systems require extra computation compared
to standalone LLMs—retrieval, generation, and
sometimes iterative steps increase latency and
resource usage.
Need for adaptive strategies
Techniques like Adaptive-RAG avoid retrieval for
simple questions, reducing costs by activating
retrieval only when necessary.
While RAG systems have great potential, overcoming the challenges in the retrieval and
generation processes is crucial for their eﬀective operation. Issues such as fast access to accu-
rate information, proper utilization of that information, preventing hallucinations, and ensuring
system eﬃciency remain signiﬁcant problems to be solved. These challenges represent an active
area of research, and addressing them will enhance the reliability of RAG systems.
5
Future Trends
The rapid advancements in the ﬁeld of RAG indicate that this approach will become even more
sophisticated and widespread in the future. Some key trends that researchers are expected to
focus on in the coming years include:
Modular and Adaptive RAG: Future RAG architectures are expected to become more
modular and adaptable. The “Modular RAG” paradigm described by Gao et al. (2023) trans-
52

S¸. POLAN: RETRIEVAL-AUGMENTED GENERATION: ARCHITECTURE...
forms the RAG process from a linear pipeline into a ﬂexible structure composed of modules
that can branch and merge as needed.
This allows diﬀerent retrieval strategies or language
model modules to be used depending on the query type. For instance, if a query requires visual
data, an image retrieval module can be activated (multimodal RAG), or if a query involves
multi-step reasoning, a logic chain module can be added. This ﬂexibility aims to enhance RAG
systems beyond a single rigid design, evolving them into a framework enriched with various
subcomponents.
Additionally, the concept of Adaptive RAG will gain importance. Intelligent systems capable
of dynamically selecting strategies based on query complexity may emerge. For example, simple
questions could receive direct answers, medium-complexity questions could undergo a single-step
RAG process, and highly complex questions could trigger multi-step RAG. This approach would
enhance eﬃciency by preventing unnecessary computations while applying full processing power
when needed to solve diﬃcult problems.
Advanced Retrieval Techniques and Embedding Models: On the retrieval side of
RAG, research will continue on improved embedding models and search techniques. Particu-
larly, non-open-domain and multilingual retrieval will gain importance. Current systems pre-
dominantly focus on English and general knowledge. In the future, domain-speciﬁc RAG appli-
cations—such as in medicine and law—will require embedding models that better capture the
terminology and linguistic nuances of these ﬁelds.
Moreover, semantic inference methods may replace traditional semantic indexing. Instead
of mere keyword matching, systems could be designed to understand the intent behind a query
and retrieve relevant background information using logical inference.
Eﬀorts will also continue to improve the reliability and scalability of vector databases, which
are fundamental to RAG infrastructures. The study “Towards Reliable VDBMS” (Wang et
al., 2025) has already raised concerns regarding the robustness and fault tolerance of vector
databases.
As these databases mature, we can expect more reliable and error-free retrieval
layers. Additionally, real-time indexing capabilities may be developed, enabling the integration
of the latest information—such as breaking news—into the vector space within minutes. This
would help keep RAG systems constantly updated.
Diversiﬁcation of Information Sources (Multi-Modality): Future RAG systems will
leverage not just text but multiple data types to generate responses. If the answer to a question
is embedded in an image, the system will be able to retrieve and interpret it using a visual
processing module. Approaches like Knowledge-Graph Augmented RAG (Matsumoto et al.,
2024) aim to incorporate structured data into the RAG loop. This will enable models to extract
information not only from plain text but also from knowledge graphs and databases.
For example, when asked about a country’s economic data, a RAG system could connect to
a statistical database, fetch relevant ﬁgures, and generate a structured response. This represents
a higher level of integration than traditional document retrieval approaches.
Similarly, tool-augmented RAG will become more prevalent. A language model could dy-
namically call external tools such as a calculator or a calendar to enhance its responses (LLM +
Tools approach). When combined with RAG, this capability would give the model both memory
(text retrieval) and computation power. For example, if asked, “How much did Turkey’s popu-
lation increase in 2023?”, a RAG system could retrieve the population data for 2022 and 2023
and then compute the diﬀerence using an external tool before delivering the ﬁnal answer. These
combinatorial abilities will form the foundation of future intelligent information assistants.
Evaluation and Reliability: The evaluation of RAG systems will also become standard-
ized and more comprehensive in the future. Although frameworks like RAGAS have recently
emerged, universally accepted benchmarks and evaluation protocols for comparing diﬀerent RAG
systems will likely be established. Uniﬁed scoring methods that assess both retrieval quality and
response accuracy may be developed.
A signiﬁcant step in this direction could be the introduction of a single composite metric
53

JOURNAL OF MODERN TECHNOLOGY AND ENGINEERING, V.10, N.1, 2025
that summarizes a RAG system’s overall performance—similar to how the BLEU score became
widely used in machine translation. Additionally, reliability remains a critical issue. Future
systems will be designed to detect when they are uncertain and either alert the user or refrain
from providing an answer. A RAG model that can say, “Sorry, I don’t have information on
that,” instead of generating incorrect responses will score higher in terms of trustworthiness.
Human Feedback-Driven Development: Reinforcement Learning with Human Feed-
back (RLHF) played a major role in training models like ChatGPT. Similarly, RAG systems
may enter a phase where they are ﬁne-tuned based on human feedback. Human evaluators could
assess whether retrieved contexts are relevant and whether responses are satisfactory, helping to
improve the system iteratively.
This approach will be particularly valuable in corporate applications, such as customer sup-
port bots. By collecting real-world user interactions, RAG systems can continuously learn and
enhance their performance. Early models like BlenderBot 3 (Shuster et al., 2022) attempted to
update themselves based on live user feedback. In the future, this approach will become more
reﬁned, allowing RAG systems to improve even after deployment through online learning.
Expansion of Application Domains: Until now, RAG has primarily focused on general
knowledge and question-answering tasks. However, in the future, domain-speciﬁc and industrial
applications will expand.
For instance, legal AI assistants utilizing RAG could analyze court rulings from a legal
database and provide relevant precedents to lawyers. In the medical ﬁeld, RAG systems could
retrieve information from past patient records and the latest medical literature to answer doctors’
queries. In fact, a specialized RAG model was developed in 2024 for cancer clinical trials, with
key performance results documented. Such domain-speciﬁc systems will represent customized
adaptations of general RAG technology.
Retrieval-Augmented Generation has opened new frontiers in AI by combining the vast
capabilities of large language models with real-world knowledge retrieval. In the coming years,
we will see more ﬂexible, reliable, and intelligent RAG systems.
These advancements will lead to systems that can integrate heterogeneous information
sources, utilize external tools when needed, and provide users with trustworthy responses. As
this evolution continues, academic research on RAG will further accelerate innovation in areas
such as architectural improvements, optimization techniques, and evaluation methodologies.By
enabling seamless retrieval and intelligent synthesis of information, the RAG paradigm is poised
to play a central role in the future of AI-powered information systems.
6
Conclusion
RAG approach is an innovative framework that enables large language models to generate more
accurate, up-to-date, and traceable text by integrating external knowledge. This paper provides
a detailed analysis of the architectural structure and fundamental components of RAG processes,
including the working principles of the retrieval module, the use of embedding models and vector
databases, the enrichment of the language model with context, and the optimization of the
text generation phase.
Since evaluating the performance of RAG systems requires a hybrid
assessment beyond traditional metrics, both retrieval and generation dimensions are discussed.
In light of current research, the challenges faced by RAG systems (such as hallucination, incorrect
retrieval, and inconsistency issues) and the proposed solutions are presented. Finally, future
directions in the ﬁeld of RAG are evaluated, emphasizing the emergence of more modular,
multimodal, adaptable, and reliable RAG systems.
As a discipline at the intersection of natural language processing and information retrieval,
RAG has rapidly advanced in recent years. Academic studies conducted over the past few years
have demonstrated RAG’s potential from various perspectives, repeatedly proving that the RAG
architecture is an eﬀective solution for developing knowledge-based AI systems. Particularly in
54

S¸. POLAN: RETRIEVAL-AUGMENTED GENERATION: ARCHITECTURE...
knowledge-intensive tasks, RAG methods have achieved strong results, enhancing the language
capabilities of traditional language model approaches (Khattab et al., 2022). However, for RAG
applications to fully mature, there are still unresolved issues and areas requiring optimization.
Ongoing research continues to introduce new methods to make RAG systems more eﬃcient.
In conclusion, a technical literature review of RAG processes clearly highlights both the
strengths and limitations of this approach. This architecture, which combines information re-
trieval and text generation, symbolizes AI systems’ ability to ”speak with knowledge.” In the
future, it is highly likely that RAG will become a standard component across various industries
and applications. Findings from academic studies conﬁrm that, when applied correctly, RAG
enhances large language models by making them more reliable, up-to-date, and functional. Ac-
cordingly, we can anticipate groundbreaking developments in both experimental studies and
real-world applications of RAG-based systems in the coming years.
References
Borgeaud, S., Mensch, A., Hoﬀmann, J., Cai, T., Rutherford, E., Millican, K., . . . & Sifre, L.
(2022). Improving language models by retrieving from trillions of tokens. Proceedings of the
39th International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML), 162, 2206–2240.
Chen, J., Lin, H., Han, X., & Sun, L. (2024, March). Benchmarking large language models in
retrieval-augmented generation. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelli-
gence (Vol. 38, No. 16, pp. 17754–17762).
Es, S., James, J., Anke, L. E., & Schockaert, S. (2024, March). RAGAS: Automated evaluation
of retrieval-augmented generation. In Proceedings of the 18th Conference of the European
Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: System Demonstrations (pp. 150–
158).
Gao, Y., Xiong, Y., Gao, X., Jia, K., Pan, J., Bi, Y., . . . & Wang, H. (2023). Retrieval-augmented
generation for large language models: A survey. arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.10997, 2.
Hung, T.K., Kuperman, G.J., Sherman, E.J., Ho, A.L., Weng, C., Pﬁster, D.G., & Mao, J.J.
(2024). Performance of retrieval-augmented large language models to recommend head and
neck cancer clinical trials. Journal of Medical Internet Research, 26, e60695. https://doi.
org/10.2196/60695
Jeong, S., Baek, J., Cho, S., Hwang, S.J., & Park, J.C. (2024). Adaptive-RAG: Learning to
adapt retrieval-augmented large language models through question complexity.
Khattab, O., Santhanam, K., Li, X. L., Hall, D., Liang, P., Potts, C., & Zaharia, M.
(2022). Demonstrate-search-predict: Composing retrieval and language models for knowledge-
intensive NLP. arXiv preprint arXiv:2212.14024.
Liu, N. F., Lin, K., Hewitt, J., Paranjape, A., Bevilacqua, M., Petroni, F., & Liang, P. (2023).
Lost in the middle: How language models use long contexts. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.03172.
Liu, Y., Gan, A., Zhang, K., Tong, S., Liu, Q., & Liu, Z. (2024, August). Evaluation of retrieval-
augmented generation: A survey. In CCF Conference on Big Data (pp. 102–120). Singapore:
Springer Nature Singapore.
Mallen, A., Asai, A., Zhong, V., Das, R., Khashabi, D., & Hajishirzi, H. (2023). When not to
trust language models: Investigating eﬀectiveness of parametric and non-parametric memo-
ries. In Proceedings of ACL 2023 (Long Papers) (pp. 9802–9822).
55

JOURNAL OF MODERN TECHNOLOGY AND ENGINEERING, V.10, N.1, 2025
Matsumoto, N., Moran, J., Choi, H., Hernandez, M. E., Venkatesan, M., Wang, P., & Moore,
J. H. (2024). KRAGEN: A knowledge graph-enhanced RAG framework for biomedical prob-
lem solving using large language models. Bioinformatics (Oxford, England), 40(6), btae353.
https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btae353
Min, S., Krishna, K., Lyu, X., Lewis, M., Yih, W., Koh, P.W., Iyyer, M., Zettlemoyer, L.,
& Hajishirzi, H. (2023). FActScore: Fine-grained atomic evaluation of factual precision in
long-form text generation.
Miao, J., Thongprayoon, C., Suppadungsuk, S., Garcia Valencia, O.A., & Cheungpasitporn, W.
(2024). Integrating retrieval-augmented generation with large language models in nephrology:
Advancing practical applications. Medicina, 60(3), 445.
Ram, O., Levine, Y., Dalmedigos, I., Muhlgay, D., Shashua, A., Leyton-Brown, K., & Shoham,
Y. (2023). In-context retrieval-augmented language models. Transactions of the Association
for Computational Linguistics, 11, 1316–1331.
Shi, W., Min, S., Yasunaga, M., Seo, M., James, R., Lewis, M., Zettlemoyer, L., & Yih, W.
(2024). REPLUG: Retrieval-augmented black-box language models. In Proceedings of NAACL
2024 (Long Papers) (pp. 8371–8384).
Shuster, K., Xu, J., Komeili, M., Ju, D., Smith, E.M., Roller, S., . . . Weston, J. (2022). Blender-
bot 3: A deployed conversational agent that continually learns to responsibly engage. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2208.03188.
Wang, S., Zhao, Y., Xie, Y., Liu, Z., Hou, X., Zou, Q., & Wang, H. (2025). Towards reliable
vector database management systems: A software testing roadmap for 2030. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2502.20812.
Wu,
S.,
Xiong,
Y.,
Cui,
Y.,
Wu,
H.,
Chen,
C.,
Yuan,
Y.,
. . .
Xue,
C.J. (2024).
Retrieval-augmented generation for natural language processing: A survey. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2407.13193.
Yu, H., Gan, A., Zhang, K., Tong, S., Liu, Q., & Liu, Z. (2024, August). Evaluation of retrieval-
augmented generation: A survey. In CCF Conference on Big Data (pp. 102–120). Singapore:
Springer Nature Singapore.
Yu, W. (2022). Retrieval-augmented generation across heterogeneous knowledge. In Proceedings
of the NAACL 2022 Student Research Workshop (pp. 52–58).
56