IADIS International Journal on Computer Science and Information Systems 
Vol. 20, No. 1, pp. 40-56 
ISSN: 1646-3692 
40 
POST-HOC NATURAL-LANGUAGE 
EXPLANATIONS OF COMPONENT-BASED 
KNOWLEDGE GRAPH QUESTION ANSWERING 
SYSTEMS GENERATED BY LLMS 
Dennis Schiese, Aleksandr Perevalov and Andreas Both 
Leipzig University of Applied Sciences, Karl-Liebknecht-Straße 132, 04277 Leipzig, Germany 
ABSTRACT 
Modern software systems have become so complex that explaining their decisions poses significant 
challenges for both developers and users. This article addresses the explainability of component-based 
Knowledge Graph Question Answering (KGQA) systems, where components often rely on AI-driven 
processes. Such processes can be opaque, making it difficult even for KGQA experts to interpret the 
underlying behavior and outcomes. To tackle this issue, we propose an approach that leverages the input 
and output data flows of system components as a basis for representing their behavior and generating 
explanations. This enables users to better understand how decisions are made. In the KGQA framework 
considered here, component data flows are expressed as SPARQL queries (inputs) and RDF triples 
(outputs). Consequently, our work also provides insights into verbalizing these data types. Through 
experiments, we evaluate our approach, comparing template-based explanation generation (baseline) with 
automatic generation using Large Language Models (LLMs) configured in various ways. The results 
demonstrate that LLM-generated explanations are of high quality and generally outperform template-based 
methods based on user evaluations. This approach thus facilitates the automated natural-language 
explanation of KGQA components’ behavior and decisions, contextualized within RDF and SPARQL 
representations. 
KEYWORDS 
Explainable AI, Large Language Models, Knowledge Graphs, RDF, SPARQL, Question Answering 
1. INTRODUCTION 
In times of rapid development of artificial intelligence (AI) applications, where new ones are 
created daily and the majority of them have become indispensable in everyday life. However, 
many users do not have a certain basic understanding of this technology’s behavior. In a study 

POST-HOC NATURAL-LANGUAGE EXPLANATIONS OF COMPONENT-BASED KNOWLEDGE 
GRAPH QUESTION ANSWERING SYSTEMS GENERATED BY LLMS 
41 
conducted in 2021, only 28% of respondents trusted AI systems (Gillespie et al. 2021). 
Nevertheless, more people are in favor of further development and research into AI than are 
against it (Gillespie et al. 2021). The ability to explain the decisions of AI-driven systems is an 
important step in addressing the lack of trust among its users. In addition, developers and 
researchers would also benefit from better traceability (Rosenfeld & Richardson 2019). 
Nowadays, many developed software systems are component-based systems, i.e., they are 
composed of multiple blocks isolated from each other (e.g., web services, libraries, packages). 
A number of these systems follow the orchestration pattern (e.g., Figure 1a). Although the way 
how the components are called is transparent, their internal behavior is usually encapsulated. 
This lack of transparency is particularly increased by the use of AI models (e.g., language 
models) within the components. This limits the traceability of the behavior of such systems and 
increases the need for explainability. In particular, debugging (distributed) component-based 
systems is cumbersome and time-consuming. However, we follow here the hypothesis that due 
to their flexibility, component-based systems offer a decisive advantage in terms of 
explainability compared to monolithic systems, as different stages of a process can be 
considered separately, allowing for more detailed explanations. In general, the explanation of 
such systems typically involves providing a natural-language text, e.g., for clarifying the 
processes. Process explanation is central to AI methods such as machine learning and deep 
learning, with existing approaches such as (Adadi & Berrada 2018, Barredo Arrieta et al. 2020, 
Burkart & Huber 2021, Haar et al. 2023). Data explanation, on the other hand, aims to make 
system outputs understandable and transparent by explaining their individual components. 
In this article, we present an approach for creating explainable component-based Question 
Answering (QA) systems, followed by a case study where we utilize the semantics of the 
internal data flows to generate explanations with a rule-based (template-based) and generative 
approach. Here, we consider explanations for end users (nevertheless experts in their field), i.e., 
they must be interpretable for humans. Due to the lack of reference works and datasets, we won’t 
be able to compare our results with those. For the introduction of such a dataset, we will use the 
Qanary framework (Both et al. 2016) and derived QA systems. Here, we consider the data flows 
of components integrated into a component-based QA system. The used QA framework is  
well-prepared for this approach, as it already explicitly represents the components’ input data 
as SPARQL1 queries (i.e., the component requests data while using SPARQL from a central 
process memory) and the output data as RDF2 triples. Hence, for all components, the data flow 
is transparent. To validate our approach, we implement a template-based setting and one based 
on Large Language Models (LLM-based) for verbalizing the data flow (i.e., converting to 
natural language). Both settings are compared with each other using quantitative (automatic) 
and qualitative (human experts) settings. We derive the following research questions: (RQ1) 
Can the data flow of a component be verbalized for the purpose of explaining the component’s 
behavior?; (RQ2) What is the quantitative and qualitative difference between template-based 
and LLM-based prompts? 
 
1 https://www.w3.org/TR/sparql11-overview/ 
2 Resource Description Framework, cf. https://www.w3.org/RDF/ 

IADIS International Journal on Computer Science and Information Systems 
42 
The article is organized as follows. In Section 2, we give an overview of the previous work 
in this field. Section 3 defines the approach for explainable QA systems, and presents technical 
details on the implementation. The experimental setup and evaluation are presented in Section 
4. We conclude the article in Section 5. 
2. RELATED WORK 
The concept of explainability is inherently abstract across any area due to the lack of a consistent 
definition (Chazette et al. 2021). In computer science, however, this term plays an increasingly 
important role as software systems become larger and more complex over time. Furthermore, 
the growing deployment of AI in these systems results in a certain degree of opacity, effectively 
transforming them into black boxes. Consequently, numerous approaches have been proposed 
to address this issue. Among these, the majority concentrate on justifying AI algorithms, given 
the growing utilization of artificial intelligence. This has led to the emergence of a separate 
research area, namely explainable AI (xAI). In this field, different approaches have emerged, 
each to enhance the explainability of machine- and deep-learning algorithms (Pope et al. 2019, 
Burkart & Huber 2021, Haar et al. 2023). 
Verbalizing SPARQL queries, which can be seen as explaining them, has mostly been 
approached in an inverse way, e.g., by Ngonga Ngomo et al. (2013), Yin et al. (2021), and 
Sander (2014). This consideration is interesting in the context of answering questions over 
linked data, but not relevant to this work. Verbalizing or explaining SPARQL queries, on the 
other hand, has been the focus of limited research. Existing approaches can be broadly 
categorized as either rule-based (template-based) or generative AI-based. Notable rule-based 
approaches include SPARTIQULATION (Ell et al. (2015)) and SPARQL2NL (Ngonga Ngomo 
et al. (2013)). Both showed promising results, yet the authors note room for improvement, 
especially with complex queries where the effectiveness diminished. As the implementation 
effort was considered disproportionate to the potential impact, these methods were not used in 
this work. In contrast, the study presented by Perevalov & Both (2024) uses generative AI, 
 
 
(a) Exemplary orchestrated system. The green (input) 
and blue (output) lines represent the data flows. The 
external component below the dotted line, represents 
an external component, whereas the parent component 
acts as an atomic component and orchestrator at the 
same time. 
(b) General, generalist component model 
with one input and one output stream. The 
Part-Of 
label 
represents 
the 
possible 
aggregation of components of this type. The 
yellow 
explanation 
box 
indicates 
the 
possibility of explaining this component. 
Figure 1. Example of a component-based system and the generalized component model 

POST-HOC NATURAL-LANGUAGE EXPLANATIONS OF COMPONENT-BASED KNOWLEDGE 
GRAPH QUESTION ANSWERING SYSTEMS GENERATED BY LLMS 
43 
specifically large language models (LLMs). Since this study was published during the 
preparation of this article, a direct comparison of the results was not possible, although the 
approach in this article will use LLMs to translate SPARQL queries, too. 
The second challenge in the scope of explanation generation is the verbalization of 
grounded3 RDF triples. Although there is little research on this topic, a common approach aims 
to exploit the rich semantics that RDF offers by definition. In this context, Sun et al. found in 
2006 that a large number of predicates (from natural language sentences) can be classified into 
RDF triples (Mellish & Sun 2006). In 2007, they leveraged this finding and presented an 
approach that uses this notion (Sun & Mellish 2007). In addition to these first steps towards 
verbalizing RDF triples, several other approaches have been developed, including several  
rule-based ones (Lapalme (2020), Moussallem, Gnaneshwar, Ferreira & Ngomo (2020), 
Moussallem, Speck & Ngonga Ngomo (2020)) and neural network (Moussallem, Speck  
& Ngonga Ngomo (2020)) approach(es). In our work, we first adopt the concept of templates 
in our template-based approach. At the same time, the generation of AI-based explanations is 
an experimental addition that aims to address the limitations of rule-based approaches in 
component-based systems outlined throughout the article. 
As previously discussed in the context of verbalizing SPARQL queries and RDF triples, 
generative AI methods have also been employed in recent times for the verbalization of this 
data. In particular, Large Language Models (LLMs) have been utilized in this context. This is 
not surprising, given that these models have been demonstrated to be capable of generating 
(high-quality) text and thereby creating explanations (whose quality must be evaluated) from 
diverse data sources. Furthermore, the capacity to adapt such models, for instance through  
fine-tuning, has the potential to enhance their capabilities. In order to assess the potential quality 
of such a fine-tuned model, we rely on one of the most powerful and promising general-purpose 
(text-generation focused) LLMs, namely GPT-3.5 and GPT-4, which have been developed by 
OpenAI4 and demonstrate consistently strong performance across a range of tasks (in the area 
of natural language generation) (Li et al. 2024, Ribeiro et al. 2021, Chen et al. 2020). 
In addition to natural language generation, question-answering (QA) systems address the 
field of natural language understanding. Within this area, various Question Answering 
frameworks have been developed, which can be broadly categorized as component-based or 
monolithic. Concerning explainable, component-based QA systems, only the approach 
QA2Explanation has been found. It was proposed by Shekarpour et al. (Shekarpour et al. 2020). 
This approach utilizes the Frankenstein approach5 (Singh et al. 2018a, Singh et al. 2018b) – an 
extension of the component-based Qanary framework (Both et al. 2016) – to provide valid 
explanations for each pipeline stage (i.e., processing steps). 
 
3 Grounded or explicit triples are triples without variables, cf. https://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-sparql-query/ 
4 cf. https://platform.openai.com/docs/models 
5 https://github.com/WDAqua/Frankenstein 

IADIS International Journal on Computer Science and Information Systems 
44 
By augmenting the framework with classifiers, they return the expected success for 
components to fulfill the question-answering task and select appropriate templates. Qualitative 
analysis of these explanations revealed that interviewees accepted them when provided, 
enhancing confidence in the QA process and underscoring the value of data-driven explanations 
for traceability. However, the authors also emphasize that the explanations depend on various 
factors from other disciplines, such as social science and cognitive decision-making. This 
reiterates the previously mentioned challenge associated with the term explainability. Similar 
results can also be found in (Hoffman et al. 2017). From the existing QA frameworks, only the 
Qanary framework offers the functionality required to answer our research question, as it is a 
component-based QA framework that manages the components as web services and explicitly 
represents the input and output data. 
3. APPROACH AND IMPLEMENTATION 
As a foundation for explainable QA systems, we present a concept that is aimed at systems 
following the orchestration pattern (cf. Figure 1a). Therefore, we define a model as well as an 
ontology capable of representing the intended information as general and extensible as possible. 
In examining component-based systems, it may be beneficial to consider the individual 
components for further analysis. Then, by focusing on the most relevant aspects in terms of 
 
(a) Exemplary Qanary QA system following 
Figure 1a. Grayed-out explanation boxes indicate 
that the explanation of this component is not 
within the scope of this work. The green and blue 
lines indicate the data flows (input/output data 
stream) controlled by the parent component, the 
pipeline. 
(b) Ontology that represents the explanation for 
components within a component-based system. 
The primary focus is on the data that is separated 
into output and input as well as the explanation. 
Thus, the explanation comprises the type and the 
actual natural language text (as we defined the type 
TextualExplanation). 
Figure 2. An exemplary Qanary Question Answering system and a foundational ontology that serves 
as the foundation for representing the most crucial aspects for explaining components within 
component-based systems 

POST-HOC NATURAL-LANGUAGE EXPLANATIONS OF COMPONENT-BASED KNOWLEDGE 
GRAPH QUESTION ANSWERING SYSTEMS GENERATED BY LLMS 
45 
components’ explainability (i.e., component input and output) in an orchestration-based system, 
we derived the component model depicted in Figure 1b, where each component might integrate 
other components (expressed by the part-of relation). In addition, like the orchestrated system 
in Figure 1a, the general component model contains two data streams – INPUT and OUTPUT – 
and an explanation of the component’s behavior for the considered specific execution  
(i.e., a particular process). 
We apply this concept to concrete QA systems that are built using the Qanary framework6 
(cf. Section 2), as these are orchestrated systems (for example as shown in Figure 2a), 
comprising a pipeline (orchestrator) and (atomic) components. All of these components are web 
services following a particular scheme to transfer data autonomously (after being activated in a 
process): 
• They fetch the required data from a centralized knowledge base (a triplestore) via  
 
SPARQL query. Hence, the input is represented by a SPARQL SELECT query. 
• After computation, each Qanary component stores data in process memory, making  
 
it accessible to follow-up components. This data, represented as grounded RDF  
 
triples, is traceable to its source via Qanary-specific metadata. 
 
 
 
6 https://github.com/WDAqua/Qanary 
All Annotations of the 
type AnnotationOfInstance 
have been requested, 
which inherits the date 
of its creation, the URI 
for the origin question, 
a knowledge-graph 
resource as well as the 
correlating start and end 
position for the found 
entity. If 
provided, a score is 
fetched too. 
(a) This SPARQL query is an exemplary INPUT data stream 
(In) used by a component Cn. There is a template for almost 
every distinct SPARQL query in the aforementioned Qanary 
repository. For generative explanations, the complete 
SPARQL query is passed to the used Large Language 
Model. Note: The prefix definitions are excluded from the 
SPARQL query. 
(b) Exemplary explanation text for a 
specific input data type In. The 
templates for the input data types are 
predefined and thus, they do not contain 
any placeholders. The rationale behind 
this decision is as follows: The 
requested data doesn’t vary much (only 
the requested graph). 
Figure 3. Exemplary template for an explanation and input data for a component Cn 

IADIS International Journal on Computer Science and Information Systems 
46 
"The component 
${component} has 
added 
${numberOfAnnotations} 
annotation(s) to the 
graph: " 
(a) Explanation template for the 
prefix that represents the 1st part 
of the output data explanation. 
There always exists exactly one 
prefix per explanation. 
"i. on ${annotatedAt} 
&{with a confidence of 
${score}}& and the 
resource ${hasBody} 
[...]" 
(b) Explanation template for the 
output data item that represents the 
2nd part of the output data 
explanation. An explanation can 
contain multiple occurrences of 
this, depending on the number of 
data 
items 
existing 
for 
the 
component (see Figure 4c. There, 
each 
float-like 
identifier 
represents one of those data 
items). The "&{}" placeholder 
indicates a conditional placeholder 
that is only resolved whenever the 
inner placeholder contains a valid 
value. 
(c) Exemplary output data for a component Cn. The structure 
is very similar to the turtle format and represents grounded 
triples. To make it sentence-like, for each triple, a dot was 
appended. 
The component urn:qanary:NED-
DBpediaSpotlight has added 1 annotation(s) 
to the graph: 
1. on 2023-10-20T09:32:08.322985Z with a 
confidence of 0.8546948727066047 and the 
resource 
http://dbpedia.org/resource/Civilization 
(d) Explanation following the templates for this data type On 
and the concrete data (exemplary from Figure 4c). As a 
score is provided in the referenced data set, the conditional 
placeholder is replaced with the actual value. 
 
Figure 4. Exemplary Template, data, and explanation for a component Cn. The explanation consists of 
two parts, namely the prefix and the sum of all annotation explanations. The placeholders are 
replaced with the values from the data set. Following the standard RDF definitions,  
triples can be separated into a subject, predicate, and object. Thus, more precisely, the objects are 
being taken as values 
Hence, the task is to verbalize the specific input data (SPARQL INSERT query) and output 
data (grounded RDF triples) to reflect the components’ behavior regarding a user-demanded 
QA process identified by the question that is the starting point of any specific QA process  
(i.e., one that was previously executed) in Qanary. To accomplish the objective, the explanations 
are to be generated in two ways: a) rule-/template-based and b) through the utilization of 
generative AI. Moreover, to represent the required data, we employed an ontology7 that is 
visualized in Figure 2. 
 
7 The ontology is published unter DOI: 10.6084/m9.figshare.27979427 

POST-HOC NATURAL-LANGUAGE EXPLANATIONS OF COMPONENT-BASED KNOWLEDGE 
GRAPH QUESTION ANSWERING SYSTEMS GENERATED BY LLMS 
47 
Template-based generation of component explanations.  For the template-based 
approach, an external Java service8 has been implemented to generate explanations based on the 
defined datasets. To do so, it queries the QA-process-related knowledge graph (that contains all 
the required information) and utilizes this fetched data to explain any component in the prior 
executed QA process. For both types of data (input or output) different approaches were used: 
The input data is explained through fixed templates without placeholders. These templates are 
defined once for all centrally9 available SPARQL queries. In a concrete case, as depicted in 
Figure 3, the appropriate template for the executed SELECT query is chosen based on the 
requested data item (called annotation in the Qanary terminology). While this method provides 
a straightforward foundation, it is constrained in the long term as new queries necessitate a new 
manual explanation. The explanation of the output data, namely the RDF triples, also employs 
a template-based approach. In contrast to the input data, where only the graph within the 
SPARQL query differs, the data here is highly variable. Depending on the component, the 
question, or the existing data in the triplestore, the data changes accordingly. Consequently, the 
templates use placeholders that utilize the values from the queried data, as illustrated in Figure 
4. Although the data set is highly variable, it still encompasses both shared and distinct variables. 
Accordingly, this necessitates a two-part explanation, which is structured as follows:  
(1) The prefix: Consists of the executed component and the number of data items (recognizable 
by different IDs) that were sent from the component to the QA system (stored in a knowledge 
graph, see Figure 4a); (2) The actual output data items: Explanation of each data item. The 
template for each item is selected based on the corresponding data type. For each item, 
additional pieces of information are provided, e.g., time and confidence score (see Figure 4b). 
   Following this structure, an explanation is shown in Figure 4d. The explanations generated by 
this method represent a systematic approach that demonstrates the applicability of the concept, 
as well as providing a foundation for further considerations. 
LLM-based generation of component explanations. The second approach, which is the 
focus of the following experiments, investigates the ability of LLMs to verbalize data flows with 
the assistance of LLMs. When examining the potential benefits of this approach in comparison 
to the template-based approach, it becomes evident that the template-based approach has several 
limitations. These include the high costs associated with maintaining or extending templates and 
the inability to generalize, which in turn limits the automation of explanations for new 
annotation types. In order to create LLM-based explanations, the prompt templates shown in 
Figure 5a (output data) and Figure 5b (input data) were utilized. 
4. EXPERIMENTS AND EVALUATION  
As a prerequisite to the experiments section, we unite concrete Qanary components into 
“component sets”, which serve to generalize the different existing data types10. Therefore, the 
notation (1) C1, ..., Cn represents the used components, and (2) O1, ..., On stands for the different 
(output) data types the components produce. The same applies to 2-shot experiments. For each 
metric, the best rating is highlighted (per row). In contrast, the input data (SPARQL SELECT 
 
8 Software released under DOI: 10.6084/m9.figshare.27979319 
9 The Qanary commons package defined all used SPARQL queries in a central place:  
https://github.com/WDAqua/Qanary/tree/master/qanary_commons 
10 In Qanary, these different data types are represented by different annotation types 

IADIS International Journal on Computer Science and Information Systems 
48 
queries) are referenced as I1, ..., I611. In our experiments, the following components were used 
to produce the following data types: 
1. O1: C1 = NED-DBpediaSpotlight,  
       C2 = NED Dandelion,  
       C3 = NED-Ontotext,  
       C4 = NED-TagMe; 
2. O2: C5 = NER-DBpediaSpotlight,  
       C6  = TagMeNER,  
       C7 = TextRazor,  
       C8 = DandelionNER; 
3. O3: C9 = REL Python Falcon,  
       C10 = DiambiguationProperty-OKBQA; 
4. O4: C11 = SINA,  
       C12 = QAnswerQueryBuilderAndQueryCandidateFetcher,  
       C13 = PlatypusQueryBuilder. 
 
Subsequently, we intend to evaluate the experiments in qualitative and quantitative terms.  
It should be noted that the quantitative evaluation will be based on a specifically derived formula 
and will pertain only to the latter output-data explanation experiments, not the template-based 
explanations, which serve as the baseline in this context. 
With regard to the qualitative evaluation, we recognize the problem of a generally applicable 
evaluation scheme for explanations (Adadi & Berrada 2018, Anjomshoae et al. 2019). That is 
why we concentrated on two aspects that aim to encompass the two dimensions of explanation 
evaluation as described by (Gilpin et al. 2018), namely interpretability and completeness. Thus, 
we use ‘correctness’ to assess completeness and ’usefulness’ to assess interpretability. 
 
11 The corresponding SPARQL queries (mappings) are part of the online appendix for all experimental data,  
DOI: https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.27927015.v1 

POST-HOC NATURAL-LANGUAGE EXPLANATIONS OF COMPONENT-BASED KNOWLEDGE 
GRAPH QUESTION ANSWERING SYSTEMS GENERATED BY LLMS 
49 
The evaluation of the baseline explanations and all subsequent experimental explanations 
has been carried out by three experts, each with a research background in the field of Question 
Answering and Linked Data. However, in order to get feedback from a wider audience and gain 
further insights, we’ve also implemented and published a demo with feedback functionality 
(Schiese et al. 2024). The result shows the quality of the template-based explanations for both 
types: input-data explanations and output-data explanations. Furthermore, the quality was rated 
on a 5-point Likert scale (with “5” being the best rating). The evaluation of the input-data 
explanations was based on the separated metrics' correctness and usefulness. For both metrics, 
the average was 3.67, whereas the majority was rated with 4. This in turn means that the 
explanations seem to be 73.4% correct. In terms of their usefulness, the experts consider them 
to be rather useful. The evaluation for the output-data explanations is based on the combination 
of the correctness and usefulness metrics. This is due to the fact that the values are based on 
factual information and therefore, they’re less semantically influenced by the templates. Here, 
the majority of ratings was 4, too. On average, these were rated at 3.704. Since we can assume 
that the accuracy of the factual data is probably 100%, it is reasonable to conclude that these 
explanations are just as useful to the experts as the explanations of the input data. 
 
 
 
Given the following context:  
Here, we consider the data of a 
Question Answering system. The data 
describes the outcome of this 
system. 
As a user I'd like to understand 
what happened inside that particular 
component. For this purpose a (text-
based) explanation has to be 
computed. For example, the following 
explanation was created for the 
question "<QUESTION_ID_EXAMPLE>" 
from the given raw data. 
 
The example explanation: 
<EXAMPLE_EXPLANATION> 
Given raw data: 
<EXAMPLE_RDF_DATA> 
Now, create an explanation for the 
following RDF data: 
<TASK_RDF_DATA_TEST> 
Don't introduce your answer and only 
return the result. 
Given the following context: 
Here, we consider the data of 
a Question Answering system. 
The data describes a SPARQL 
query. As a user I'd like to 
understand what the query 
means and does. For this 
purpose a (text-based) 
explanation has to be 
computed. 
 
Here's an example explanation: 
The query: 
${EXAMPLE_QUERY} 
The example explanation: 
"${EXAMPLE_EXPLANATION}" 
Now explain the following 
query, used by the component 
"${COMPONENT}": 
${TEST_QUERY} 
Don't use more than 3 
sentences. 
(a) Prompt for output data explanations 
(b) Prompt for input data explanations 
Figure 5. Prompt templates for input and output data 

IADIS International Journal on Computer Science and Information Systems 
50 
Concerning the LLM-based experiments, they were performed with the OpenAI12 models 
GPT-3.5 and GPT-413. Moreover, the employed settings comprised vanilla LLM configurations 
(i.e., no fine-tuning, due to the absence of a training dataset) and the Chat Completions API 
without modified parameters14. The question set consisted of the QALD-1015 dataset with 394 
questions. Finally, the used prompts are shown in Figures 5a and 5b.  
Evaluation approach. As with the template-based explanation evaluation, these 
experiments were also evaluated qualitatively using the metrics and the questionnaire shown in 
Fig 6b. In the case of the output-data explanations, and as pointed out earlier, we carried out an 
additional quantitative analysis. 
 
 
 
12 https://openai.com/ 
13 GPT-3.5 models: gpt-3.5-turbo / gpt-3.5-turbo-16k, GPT-4 model: gpt-4-0613 
14 The parameters are listed in the reference documentation for the Chat Completions API: 
https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/chat/create. Only the message and the model were passed. 
15 https://github.com/WSE-research/QADO-datasets/releases/tag/v0.6.0 
 
 
(a) Exemplary comparison and quantitative evaluation 
of a template-based and generative explanation. The 
yellow part represents the prefix of the explanations, 
while everything after (orange) represents the 
explanation of the annotations. As can be seen, the 
prefixes consist of the component and the number of 
annotations in both explanations. However, the 
generative annotation explanation refers to the 
annotationId (0.479...) as a score and hallucinates a 
resource. Furthermore, the generative explanation does 
not mention the position of the entity. Finally, the 
prefix isn’t depreciated, but the annotation is, because 
(1) it added a non-existent score and resource, and (2) 
it misses the position. This leads to QE = 3 + 1 = 4. 
(b) Definitions of the evaluation tasks and 
metrics employed in the qualitative expert 
evaluation. These encompass both the 
explanations of the input data (presented 
above) and the explanations of the output 
data (presented below). With regard to the 
latter, the metrics were combined, given that 
the evaluation of the factual information 
(RDF triples) lacked relevance, as this has 
already been addressed in the quantitative 
analysis. 
Figure 6. Evaluation: Example of output-data explanation and rating scheme 

POST-HOC NATURAL-LANGUAGE EXPLANATIONS OF COMPONENT-BASED KNOWLEDGE 
GRAPH QUESTION ANSWERING SYSTEMS GENERATED BY LLMS 
51 
Table 1. Qualitative expert evaluation for both data types Ii and Oi. The displayed ratings represent the 
average quality across all experiments for the given setting. For the output data explanations,  
no zero-shot examples were considered. The same applies to 2-shot experiments for GPT-4.  
For each metric, the best rating is highlighted (per row) 
 
 
 
Table 2. Quantitative output-data explanation evaluation: 1-shot test series with quantitatively 
determined average values for each experimental setting (Exemplary output, and output to be explained). 
One experimental setting consisted of 50 experiments. The highlighted values represent the best result 
for each column and both used models 
 
 
 
Due to the variability of the RDF triples, which depended on factors such as the question, 
the component used, and the data available in the knowledge graph, we were faced with a 
significantly greater variety of data. This diversity is also reflected in the variance of the 
explanations as they utilize this data. Therefore, generating these explanations using LLMs 
required more adaptation, as more than just NLG capabilities were needed. In a preliminary 
study, we then found that the data referenced in the explanations were misused to varying 
degrees, which led us to decide on a quantitative evaluation. As a basis for this evaluation, we 
derived the following formula: 
 
Figure 7. Quantitative output-data explanation evaluation: 2-shot test series with quantitatively 
determined average values for each test setup (test output and sample output combinations,  
2 samples per prompt). One test setup consisted of 50 trials. The x-axis displays the output-data 
combinations passed as examples to the prompt. The dashed line represents the average across all 
experiments and is 5.53 

IADIS International Journal on Computer Science and Information Systems 
52 
𝑄𝑄𝐸𝐸= 𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑅𝑔𝑔𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃𝑃+ ((∑𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴
𝑖𝑖=1
𝑄𝑄𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝑛𝑛𝑖𝑖 )/𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛). There, the quality of an experiment (QE) is a 
composition of the prefixes’16 rating (RatingPrefix) and the average rating of all annotations 
((∑𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴
𝑖𝑖=1
𝑄𝑄𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝑛𝑛𝑖𝑖 )/𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴), whereas AAnn represents the number of explainable annotations.  
A depreciation of a rating took place: (1) For the prefix in the case of incorrect recognition: (a) 
of the component or, (b) of the number of annotations; (2) For the annotation on (a) missing 
values (multiple occurrences only evaluated once), (b) incorrect values (multiple occurrences 
only evaluated once), An exemplary evaluation following this formula is shown in Figure 6a. 
4.1 Results 
In the following, all results are displayed and briefly discussed. The raw data for each 
experiment, as well as the evaluation results, are accessible in the online appendix17. 
Input data explanations   For the input data, explanations for 6 (I1 to I6) different SPARQL 
queries were generated. Zero-, one-, and two-shot experiments were carried out two times for 
each of these queries (one each with GPT-3.5 and GPT-4). Together with the template 
explanations, there were 42 explanations. Firstly, all generatively computed explanations 
achieved better results than the template-based ones. Furthermore, the differences between  
zero-, one-, and few-shot approaches seem to be small, but more examples never worsen the 
results. Regarding the used GPT models, it could not clearly be determined whether one was 
better than the other. In particular, GPT-3.5 produced better results for usefulness in zero- and 
one-shot experiments while GPT-4 did so for correctness in one- and two-shot examples as well 
as for usefulness in the two-shot experiments (cf. Table 1). 
Quantitative (output data explanations). The results of the quantitative evaluation were 
analyzed as part of the study according to the 1- and few-shot experiment series (Table 2). In 
addition to anomalies, possible correlations (according to the Pearson correlation coefficient) 
between the overall quality and the number of annotations were also examined. 
For the 1-shot experiment series (see Table 2), the test datatype O3 turned out to be the best with 
the highest average ratings. It was followed by O1, O4, and O2. For all except O1, experiments 
performed best when the example and test data types matched. In general, this is no surprise, 
because generative AI usually works best when the model is provided by concrete examples that 
only need to be repeated. 
Running the prompts with the GPT-4 model led to a significant improvement in the results 
regarding the average values in each series of experiments. In this case, type O3 achieved the 
highest possible average score in two cases and thus performed best, again. Consequently, an 
optimized recognition and processing of grounded RDF triples can be stated. Based on these 
results, the two-shot test series was carried out (i.e., two examples are provided in the prompt). 
Each of these comprised 10 example type combinations, which represented the combination of 
all existing types without taking the order into account. The overall results are presented in 
Figure 7. 
Starting with the consideration of the test data type O1, the average rating is between  
5.22 ≤ Rating ≤ 5.84. It was noticeable that the problem regarding missing scores and the C1 
component occurred here, too. The correlation coefficients were found to be in the range of 
 
16 The proposed output-data explanations can be divided into a prefix and the list of annotation explanations. The prefix 
includes information about the number of annotations and the component. This data was part of every dataset for the 
output-data explanations 
17 Raw data and evaluation results under DOI: 10.6084/m9.figshare.27927015 

POST-HOC NATURAL-LANGUAGE EXPLANATIONS OF COMPONENT-BASED KNOWLEDGE 
GRAPH QUESTION ANSWERING SYSTEMS GENERATED BY LLMS 
53 
0.249 ≤ |r| ≤ 0.595. For the test type O2, the range of average ratings is considerably broader, 
with a minimum of 4.42 and a maximum of 5.90. Furthermore, four experiment series exhibit 
ratings below 5. It was observed that the combination of data types with O1 resulted in  
sub-optimal performance. In contrast, the combinations with O2 exhibited the most favorable 
performance. The primary reason for the inferior outcomes can be attributed to the presence of 
missing and wrong values within the annotation’s explanation. With regards to the component 
exhibiting the highest performance, C6 achieved a score of 6 in 66.7% of cases (i.e., an excellent 
result). Finally, the calculated correlation coefficients were found to lie between |r| < 0.30 for 
five cases and |r| > 0.30 for another five cases. 
Thirdly, the test series for O3 was evaluated and, as with the corresponding one-shot test 
series, no anomalies were found. Nevertheless, the average ratings were below those of the  
one-shot test series. However, the observed discrepancy precludes any conclusion regarding the 
relative performance of the two experiment series. It was also found that the distribution of 
ratings across both components used was almost identical. The correlation coefficients were in 
the range of 0.015 ≤ |r| ≤ 0.431. Finally, the type O4 was considered. It should be mentioned that 
the vast majority of experiments were carried out with the component C1118. The result should 
therefore be considered in the context of this circumstance. However, it was noticeable that the 
series of experiments with at least one component of the type O1 performed significantly better 
and ranged between 5.8 and 6.0 (i.e., very good results). Different combinations varied between 
4.95 ≤ Rating ≤ 5.39. The consideration of possible correlations and the component score 
distribution was omitted due to the aforementioned bias. 
Qualitative (output data explanations). For the qualitative evaluation (cf. last row in Table 
1) a total of 54 experiments were selected. Since this qualitative analysis of the explanations 
served primarily as a trend check for the results of the quantitative evaluation (see above 
paragraph), we limited the experiments used, resulting in a subset of one-shot explanations of 
GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 as well as the template explanations. Thus, each experiment type contained 
18 experiments. The metric was the same as for the template quality analysis. It was notable 
that both experiment types exhibit a comparable level of performance, with 3.59 for GPT-3.5 
and 3.71 for GPT-4. Therefore, even with only this subset of evaluated experiments, the 
tendency for good generative-created explanations is amplified. 
5. CONCLUSION 
In this article19, we investigated the potential of generating explanations for Question Answering 
systems which are typically built as a component-based system following the orchestration 
pattern. These systems integrate processing steps that include AI-driven implementations, 
namely, natural language processing. For the sake of a generalized solution and as many AI 
approaches cannot be explained properly, we decided to focus in this article on creating 
explanations of the observable data flows (input and output) of the components. The created 
explanations enable experts to receive a stepwise (component-wise) understanding of the 
processing of concrete component behavior and therefore the whole process. Here we used 
 
18 Over the duration of the experimentation, other components ceased to yield solutions 
19 The corresponding publication “Towards LLM-generated explanations for Component- based Knowledge Graph 
Question Answering Systems” received the outstanding paper award at the 23rd WWW/Internet 2024 Conference 
(ICWI 2024) 

IADIS International Journal on Computer Science and Information Systems 
54 
Qanary-based KGQA systems (i.e., natural-language question processing) as a case study. 
In this study, the components data flows are represented as SPARQL queries (I1, ..., I6) and 
grounded RDF triples (O1, ..., O4) that constituted the basis for these explanations. Therefore, 
we initially introduced a concept to represent the explanations for components and their input 
as well as output streams. In this second step, we demonstrated a template-based approach to 
generate explanations, which served as a foundation for subsequent experimental considerations 
(where LLMs were used). The results of these experiments clearly showed that these 
explanations stay within the former ones. When translating SPARQL queries, we found that 
LLMs produce almost correct natural-language representations of these queries. However, in 
our case study, there was no clear improvement regarding different GPT models. Regarding the 
explanation of the output data, here RDF triples, we focused on the adaptability between the 
different data types. While our quantitative evaluation showed several different results and 
problems, such as counting or mismatching, it also showed potential, namely the relevance of 
predicates. The human expert evaluation, on the other hand, clearly showed at least the same 
quality in comparison. 
The presented approach provides a huge potential as it is not limited to the field of Question 
Answering. Instead, it provides a feasible method to explain the behavior of (component-based) 
systems while establishing a semantic layer for the input and output data of each observable 
component in a system. As this recording can be minimally invasive, there is a wide scope of 
applicability. Moreover, our experiments have shown that LLMs are well-suited for 
automatically generating human-readable explanations which are highly valued by the experts 
who typically need to understand (often growing and changing) systems while aiming for 
additional features, improved result quality, or must have their system audited. From this, we 
derive a great potential for the explanation of complex systems by using additional semantics 
for the data flows. 
Further research into the field of explainability in component-based (QA) systems, utilizing 
a range of datasets or alternative methodologies, could prove beneficial. Additionally, following 
this first step, it might be worth investigating the possibility of explaining systems and their 
hierarchical aggregations of components to help researchers and developers understand the 
behavior of component-based systems. 
REFERENCES 
Adadi, A. & Berrada, M. (2018). Peeking inside the black-box: A survey on explainable artificial 
intelligence (XAI). In IEEE Access, Vol. 6, pp. 52138-52160. 
Anjomshoae, S., Najjar, A., Calvaresi, D. and Främling, K. (2019). Explainable agents and robots: Results 
from a systematic literature review. ‘18th International Conference on Autonomous Agents and 
Multiagent Systems (AAMAS 2019)’, International Foundation for Autonomous Agents and Multiagent 
Systems, pp. 1078-1088. 
Barredo Arrieta, A. et al. (2020). Explainable artificial intelligence (XAI): Concepts, taxonomies, 
opportunities and challenges toward responsible AI. In Information Fusion, Vol. 58, pp. 82-115. 
Both, A. et al. (2016). Qanary – a methodology for vocabulary-driven open question answering systems. 
Proceedings of the 13th International Conference on The Semantic Web. Latest Advances and New 
Domains. Springer, Vol. 9678, pp. 625-641. 
Burkart, N. and Huber, M. F. (2021), A survey on the explainability of supervised machine learning.  
In Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research, Vol. 70, pp. 245-317. 

POST-HOC NATURAL-LANGUAGE EXPLANATIONS OF COMPONENT-BASED KNOWLEDGE 
GRAPH QUESTION ANSWERING SYSTEMS GENERATED BY LLMS 
55 
Chazette, L., Brunotte, W. and Speith, T. (2021). Exploring explainability: A definition, a model, and a 
knowledge catalogue. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2108.03012 
Chen, Z. et al. (2020). Few-shot NLG with pre-trained language model. Proceedings of the 58th Annual 
Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, ACL, pp. 183-190. 
Ell, B., Vrandečić, D. and Simperl, E. (2015). SPARTIQULATION: Verbalizing SPARQL queries.  
In E. Simperl (ed.) The Semantic Web: ESWC 2012 Satellite Events, Lecture Notes in Computer 
Science, Springer, pp. 117-131. 
Gillespie, N., Lockey, S. and Curtis, C. (2021). Trust in artificial Intelligence: a five country study 
(Report). The University of Queensland. 
Gilpin, L. H. et al. (2018). Explaining explanations: An overview of interpretability of machine learning. 
In 2018 IEEE 5th International Conference on Data Science and Advanced Analytics (DSAA),  
pp. 80-89. 
Haar, L. V., Elvira, T. and Ochoa, O. (2023). An analysis of explainability methods for convolutional 
neural networks. In Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence, Vol. 117, 105606. 
Hoffman, R. R., Mueller, S. T. and Klein, G. (2017). Explaining explanation, part 2: Empirical foundations. 
In IEEE Intelligent Systems, Vol. 32, No. 4, pp. 78-86. 
Lapalme, G. (2020), Rdfjsrealb: a symbolic approach for generating text from rdf triples. Proceedings of 
the 3rd International Workshop on Natural Language Generation from the Semantic Web 
(WebNLG+), pp. 144-153. 
Li, J. et al. (2024). Pre-trained language models for text generation: A survey. In ACM Computing Surveys, 
Vol. 56, No. 9. 
Mellish, C. and Sun, X. (2006). The semantic web as a linguistic resource: Opportunities for natural 
language generation. In Knowledge-Based Systems, Vol. 19, No. 5, pp 298-303. 
Moussallem, D., Gnaneshwar, D., Ferreira, T. C. and Ngomo, A.-C. N. (2020). Nabu − multilingual  
graph-based neural rdf verbalizer. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2009.07728 
Moussallem, D., Speck, R. and Ngonga Ngomo, A.-C. (2020). Generating explanations in natural language 
from knowledge graphs. In Knowledge Graphs for eXplainable Artificial Intelligence: Foundations, 
Applications and Challenges. IOS Press, Vol. 47, pp. 213-241. 
Ngonga Ngomo, A.-C. et al. (2013). Sorry, I don’t speak SPARQL: translating SPARQL queries into 
natural language. Proceedings of the 22nd International Conference on World Wide Web’, WWW ’13. 
Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, pp. 977-988. 
Perevalov, A. and Both, A. (2024). Towards LLM-driven natural language generation based on SPARQL 
queries and RDF knowledge graphs. In 3rd International Workshop on Knowledge Graph Generation 
From Text (TEXT2KG) Co-located with the Extended Semantic Web Conference (ESWC 2024). 
Pope, P. E. et al. (2019). Explainability methods for graph convolutional neural networks. In 2019 
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pp. 10772-10781. 
Ribeiro, L. F. R., Schmitt, M., Schütze, H. and Gurevych, I. (2021). Investigating pretrained language 
models for graph-to-text generation. Proceedings of the 3rd Workshop on Natural Language 
Processing for Conversational AI. Association for Computational Linguistics, Online, pp. 211-227. 
Rosenfeld, A. and Richardson, A. (2019). Explainability in human–agent systems. In Autonomous Agents 
and Multi-Agent Systems, Vol. 33, No. 6, pp. 673-705. 
Sander, M. (2014). Ontology-based translation of natural language queries to SPARQL. Natural Language 
Access to Big Data: Papers from the 2014 AAAI Fall Symposium. 
Schiese, D., Perevalov, A. and Both, A. (2024). Post-hoc insights: Natural-language explanations for  
AI-enhanced/-integrated software systems. In 20th International Conference on Semantic Systems. 
 
 

IADIS International Journal on Computer Science and Information Systems 
56 
Shekarpour, S., Nadgeri, A. and Singh, K. (2020). Qa2explanation: Generating and evaluating 
explanations for question answering systems over knowledge graph. Proceedings of the First 
Workshop on Interactive and Executable Semantic Parsing. Online. Association for Computational 
Linguistics. 
Singh, K., Both, A., Sethupat, A. and Shekarpour, S. (2018a). Frankenstein: A platform enabling reuse of 
question answering components. In A. Gangemi et al. (ed.) The Semantic Web. ESWC 2018. Lecture 
Notes in Computer Science. Springer, Cham, Vol 10843, pp. 624-638. 
Singh, K. et al. (2018b). Why reinvent the wheel: Let’s build question answering systems together. 
Proceedings of the 2018 World Wide Web Conference, WWW ’18, pp. 1247-1256. 
Sun, X. and Mellish, C. (2007). An experiment on "free generation" from single RDF triples. Proceedings 
of the Eleventh European Workshop on Natural Language Generation’, ENLG ’07, ACL,  
pp. 105-108. 
Yin, X., Gromann, D. and Rudolph, S. (2021). Neural machine translating from natural language to 
SPARQL. In Future Generation Computer Systems, Vol. 117, pp. 510-519.