Proceedings of the 2022 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics:
Human Language Technologies: Student Research Workshop, pages 52 - 58
July 10-15, 2022 ©2022 Association for Computational Linguistics
Retrieval-augmented Generation across Heterogeneous Knowledge
Wenhao Yu
University of Notre Dame, USA
wyu1@nd.edu
Abstract
Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) meth-
ods have been receiving increasing attention
from the NLP community and achieved state-
of-the-art performance on many NLP down-
stream tasks. Compared with conventional pre-
trained generation models, RAG methods have
remarkable advantages such as easy knowledge
acquisition, strong scalability, and low train-
ing cost. Although existing RAG models have
been applied to various knowledge-intensive
NLP tasks, such as open-domain QA and dia-
logue systems, most of the work has focused
on retrieving unstructured text documents from
Wikipedia. In this paper, I first elaborate on the
current obstacles to retrieving knowledge from
a single-source homogeneous corpus. Then, I
demonstrate evidence from both existing liter-
ature and my experiments, and provide multi-
ple solutions on retrieval-augmented generation
methods across heterogeneous knowledge.
1
Introduction
In recent years, large pre-trained language models
(PLMs), such as T5 (Raffel et al., 2020) and GPT-
3 (Brown et al., 2020), have revolutionized the field
of natural language processing (NLP), achieving
remarkable performance on various downstream
tasks (Qiu et al., 2020). These PLMs have learned a
substantial amount of in-depth knowledge from the
pre-training corpus (Petroni et al., 2019), so they
can predict the outputs on downstream tasks with-
out access to any external memory or raw text, as
a parameterized implicit knowledge base (Roberts
et al., 2020). The way of fine-tuning PLMs using
only input-output pairs of target data is often re-
ferred to as close-book setting (Petroni et al., 2019).
While this development is exhilarating, such
large-scale PLMs still suffer from the following
* This is a thesis proposal paper presented at the student
research workshop (SRW) at NAACL 2022 in Seattle, USA.
|
200M
|
500M
|
1B
|
10B
|
100B
|
1T
80—
60—
50—
70—
RAG
UDT-QA
T5-3B
GPT-3
RAG
KG-FiD
T5-11B
Unik-QA
GPT-3
GLaM
PE-3hop
Open-Book (RAGs)
Close-Book (PLMs)
GLaM
NQ
TQA
WQ
Exact match (EM score)
Number of parameters (Million, Billion, Trillion)
40—
T5-3B
T5-11B
Figure 1: The RAG methods significantly outperform
large-scale PLMs on three open-domain QA tasks while
trained with much fewer parameters than PLMs.
drawbacks: (i) They are usually trained offline,
making the model agnostic to the latest informa-
tion, e.g., asking a chat-bot trained from 2011-2018
about COVID-19 (Yu et al., 2022b).
(ii) They
make predictions by only “looking up information”
stored in its parameters, leading to inferior inter-
pretability (Shuster et al., 2021). (iii) They are
mostly trained on general domain corpora, mak-
ing them less effective on domain-specific tasks
(Gururangan et al., 2020). (iv) Their pre-training
phase can be prohibitively expensive for academic
research groups, limiting the model pre-training to
only a few industry labs (Izsak et al., 2021).
The solution that seems obvious at first glance is
to allow language models free access to open-world
resources, such as encyclopedias and books. The
way of augmenting the input of PLMs with external
information is often referred to as open-book set-
ting (Mihaylov et al., 2018). A prominent method
in the open-book setting is retrieval-augmented
generation (RAG) (Lewis et al., 2020b; Yu et al.,
2022c), a new learning paradigm that fuses PLMs
and traditional IR techniques, which has achieved
state-of-the-art performance in many knowledge-
intensive NLP tasks (Petroni et al., 2021). Com-
pared with large-scale PLMs counterparts, e.g.,
GPT-3, the RAG model has some remarkable ad-
52

vantages: (i) The knowledge is not implicitly stored
in model parameters, but is explicitly acquired in a
plug-and-play manner, leading to great scalability;
(ii) Instead of generating from scratch, the model
generates outputs based on some retrieved refer-
ences, which eases the difficulty of text generation.
Although the RAG models have been widely
used in the existing literature, most of the work
has focused on retrieving unstructured text from
general domain corpus, e.g., Wikipedia. However,
the performance is often limited by the coverage
of only one certain knowledge. For example, only
a finite portion of questions could be answered
from Wikipedia passages in many open-domain
QA datasets, while the remaining could only rely
on the input question because no supportive doc-
uments could be retrieved (Oguz et al., 2022). In
this paper, I first elaborate on the current obstacles
to retrieving knowledge from a single-source ho-
mogeneous corpus. Then, I demonstrate several
pieces of evidence from both existing literature and
my own experiments, and provide multiple poten-
tial solutions on retrieval-augmented generation
methods across heterogeneous knowledge.
2
Background
I will first provide a formal definition of the RAG
framework and list necessary notations. RAG aims
to predict the output y based on the source input
x (x, y are from a corpus D), while a document
reference set Z is accessible (e.g., Wikipedia). Be-
sides, the association between a document z ∈Z
and the tuple (x, y) ∈D is not necessarily known,
though it could be provided by human annota-
tions (Dinan et al., 2019) or weakly supervised
signals (Karpukhin et al., 2020).
Overall, a general RAG framework has two ma-
jor components: (i) a document retriever and (ii)
a text generator, as shown in Figure 2. The objec-
tive of the RAG is to train a model to maximize
the likelihood of y given x and Z, In practice, Z
often contains millions of documents, rendering
enumeration over z impossible. Therefore, the
first step of RAG is to leverage a document re-
triever, e.g., DPR (Karpukhin et al., 2020), to nar-
row down the search to a handful of relevant doc-
uments. The retriever takes x and Z as input and
yields relevance scores {s1, · · · , sK} of the top-K
documents Z = {z(1), · · · , z(K)}. Then, the sec-
ond step of RAG is to use a text generator, e.g.,
BART (Lewis et al., 2020a) and T5 (Raffel et al.,
The Beatles
John
LM Encoder
Q: Who was the drummer for the Beatles?
A: Ringo Starr
Ringo Starr
Paul
LM Decoder
Retriever
Close-Book (PLMs)
Open-Book 
(RAG)
Figure 2: Compared with PLMs, RAG models directly
seeks knowledge (e.g., texts, tables and KGs) from ex-
ternal information sources to help answer questions.
2019), to produce desired output y by taking both
input x and retrieved document set Z as conditions.
Document Retriever. A neural document retriever
typically employs two independent encoders like
BERT (Devlin et al., 2019) to encode the query
and the document separately, and estimates their
relevance by computing a single similarity score
between two encoded representations. For exam-
ple, in DPR (Karpukhin et al., 2020), the docu-
ments Z and context queries x are mapped into the
same dense embedding space. The relevance score
s(x, z) for each document z is computed as the vec-
tor inner product between document embedding hz
and query embedding hx, i.e., s(x, z) = hT
x × hz.
Text Generator. It can use any encoder-decoder
framework, such as BART (Lewis et al., 2020a)
and T5 (Raffel et al., 2019). The model takes in-
put sequence, as well as the support documents to
generate the desired output. A naive method for
combining the input sequence with the support doc-
uments is to concatenate them sequentially (Lewis
et al., 2020a). However, this method suffers from
the input sequence length limitation and high com-
putation cost. FiD (Izacard and Grave, 2021) pro-
cessed passages independently in the encoder, per-
formed attention over all the retrieved passages,
which demonstrated state-of-the-art performance
on many knowledge-intensive NLP tasks.
3
Proposed Work
3.1
Background and Motivation
Despite achieving remarkable performance, pre-
vious efforts of retrieval-augmented generation
(RAG) works mainly exploit only a single-source
homogeneous knowledge retrieval space, i.e.,
Wikipedia passages (Karpukhin et al., 2020; Lewis
et al., 2020b; Petroni et al., 2021; Izacard and
53

Grave, 2021; Yu et al., 2022a). However, their
model performance might be limited by the cover-
age of only one certain knowledge. For example,
only a finite portion of questions can be answered
from the Wikipedia passages in many open-domain
QA datasets, while the remaining can only rely
on the input query because no supportive docu-
ments can be retrieved (Oguz et al., 2022). Since
much useful information cannot be fulfilled based
on Wikipedia alone, a natural solution is to ex-
pand the retrieval corpus from Wikipedia to the en-
tire World Wide Web (WWW). However, suffering
from the long-tail issue and the cost of a massive
workforce, it is not wise to improve the coverage
by expanding the number of entries in a single-
source knowledge (Piktus et al., 2021; Lazaridou
et al., 2022). For example, as shown in Table 1,
increasing the retrieval space from Wikipedia (22M
documents) to the web-scale corpus CCNet (906M
documents) even hurts model performance on NQ
and HotpotQA datasets. This is most likely due to
the lower quality (where quality could mean truth-
fulness, objectivity, lack of harmful content, source
reliability, etc) of the web corpus, compared with
the Wikipedia corpus (Piktus et al., 2021).
Instead of expanding the number of entries in
a single-source knowledge, an alternative solution
is resorting to heterogeneous knowledge sources.
This is also in line with our human behavior of
answering questions that often seek a variety of
knowledge learned from different sources. There-
fore, grounding generation across heterogeneous
knowledge sources is a natural solution to improve
knowledge coverage and have more room to se-
lect appropriate knowledge. It is worth mentioning
that no knowledge type can always perform the
best. The most suitable knowledge depends on the
case, in which multiple knowledge might need to
be combined for answering one question.
3.2
Evidence from Existing Literature
There are several studies in the existing litera-
ture that combine multiple knowledge to enhance
language models, such as augmenting common-
sense reasoning with knowledge graphs (Yu et al.,
2022d), and introducing multi-modal visual fea-
tures to enhance emotional dialogue (Liang et al.,
2022). However, most of them use aligned knowl-
edge from different sources (e.g., graph-text pairs,
image-text pairs), without retrieving knowledge
from a large-scale heterogeneous corpus.
Table 1: With a larger corpus of unstructured text re-
trieval – CCNet, the model performs even worse than re-
trieving from Wikipedia alone on the NQ and HotpotQA
datasets. The model used in the table is DPR+FiD.
No.
Source
# docs
NQ
TQA
HotpotQA
1
Wikipedia
22M
51.4
71.0
36.9
2
CCNet
906M
48.6
73.1
31.6
‘
Table 2: Exact match (EM-score) of retrieving hetero-
geneous knowledge for three open-domain QA bench-
marks. The model used in the table is DPR+FiD.
No.
Knowledge type
Dataset
Text
Table
KG
NQ
TQA
WebQ
1
√
49.0
64.0
50.6
2
√
36.0
34.5
41.0
3
√
27.9
35.4
55.2
4
√
√
54.1
65.1
50.2
5
√
√
√
54.0
64.1
57.8
The most relevant works to this proposal are
UniK-QA (Oguz et al., 2022) and PLUG (Li et al.,
2021). In UniK-QA, Oguz et al. (2022) proposed
to retrieve information from a merged corpus of
structured (i.e., KG triples), semi-structured (i.e.,
tables) and unstructured data (i.e., text passages)
for open-domain QA (Oguz et al., 2022). Their
experiments were conducted on multiple open-
domain QA benchmark datasets, including Nat-
uralQuestions (NQ) (Kwiatkowski et al., 2019),
TriviaQA (TQA) (Joshi et al., 2017) and WebQues-
tions (WebQ) (Berant et al., 2013).
The results in the first three lines in Table 2 high-
light the limitation of current state-of-the-art open-
domain QA models which use only one informa-
tion source. Among the three types of knowledge
sources, text-only methods perform best on NQ
and TQA datasets, and KG-only methods perform
best on WebQ datasets. This is because most of
the questions in WebQ are collected from Freebase.
The results in the last two lines show that adding
semi-structured and structured information sources
significantly improves the performance over text-
only models on NQ and TQA datasets. This indi-
cates tables and knowledge graph triples contain
valuable knowledge which is either absent in the
unstructured texts or harder to extract from them.
It is worth mentioning that knowledge het-
erogeneity can be defined not only by the for-
mat of knowledge data (i.e., structured and un-
structured knowledge), but also by the scope of
knowledge data (i.e., encyclopedic and common-
54

Table 3: Commonly used knowledge sources.
Unstructured
(Semi-)structured
Encyclopedic
Wikipedia,
Wikidata,
knowledge
AMiner
Freebase
Commonsense
ConceptNet,
OMCS, ARC,
knowledge
CSKG, Atomic
Wiktionary
Table 4: Accuracy of retrieving heterogeneous knowl-
edge for commonsense reasoning over entity tasks.
No.
Knowledge source
Dataset
Commonsense Encyclopedia
CREAK CSQA2.0
1
√
86.55
59.28
2
√
82.28
58.23
3
√
√
87.57
60.49
sense knowledge). Table 3 shows common knowl-
edge sources under two categories. In addition
of combining structured and unstructured knowl-
edge, combining encyclopedic and commonsense
knowledge also brings benefits for many NLP
tasks, such as commonsense reasoning over entities.
Some preliminary experiments were conducted on
CREAK (Onoe et al., 2021) and CSQA2.0 (Tal-
mor et al., 2021) datasets. CREAK is a dataset
of human-authored English claims about entities
that are either true or false, such as “Harry Pot-
ter can teach classes on how to fly on a broom-
stick (True).” The model is supposed to bridge
fact-checking about entities with commonsense in-
ferences. An entity fact relevant to this statement,
“Harry Potter is a wizard and is skilled at riding a
broomstick”, can be retrieved from Wikipedia. A
commonsense knowledge, “if you are good at a
skill you can teach others how to do it”, can be
retrieved from the ATOMIC (Sap et al., 2019). By
leveraging both commonsense knowledge and en-
cyclopedic knowledge in the first-step retrieval, as
shown in Table 4, the RAG model can achieve su-
perior performance than only using either of them.
3.3
Proposed Solutions
As mentioned above, heterogeneous knowledge
is often required when solving open-domain QA
and many other knowledge-intensive NLP tasks.
One natural assumption is to expand knowledge
sources and add more data to increase the coverage
of relevant contexts, thereby improving the end-
to-end performance. In this section, I will present
three potential solutions for grounding generation
across heterogeneous knowledge.
3.3.1
Homogenize Different Knowledge to a
Unified Knowledge Representation
The first solution is to homogenize different knowl-
edge source data into a unified data format – un-
structured text. This transformation will then re-
quire only one retriever, enable relevance compari-
son across different types of data, and offer textual
knowledge to easily augment the input of genera-
tion models by concatenation. Table 3 shows some
commonly used knowledge sources. For example,
semi-structured tables and structured knowledge
graph triples can be converted into the unstructured
text by template-based methods (Bosselut et al.,
2019; Oguz et al., 2022) or neural data-to-text meth-
ods (Wang et al., 2021; Nan et al., 2021).
First, the template-based method is easy to im-
plement and requires no training process. For ex-
ample, a relation triplet in a knowledge graph con-
sists of subject, predicate, and object. It can be
serialized by concatenating the surface form of the
three elements to be a sequence of words. Be-
sides, a table can also be hierarchically converted
into text format: first, concatenate cell values of
each row separated by commas; then combine these
rows’ text forms delimited by semicolons.
Al-
though the template-based method is simple but
may suffer from incorrect syntax and incomplete
semantics. On the contrary, the neural graph-to-
text and table-to-text generation methods rely on
pre-trained language models that may ensure syn-
tax correctness and semantic completeness. Once
either type of the methods converts the structured
and semi-structured data to unstructured text, a
dense retriever model such as DPR (Karpukhin
et al., 2020) can be used to index all of them and
retrieve relevant knowledge. The reader model will
concatenate the retrieved text with original input
and compute full attention over the entire represen-
tations through a T5 (Raffel et al., 2020) decoder.
This unified knowledge index allows the models
to learn knowledge of various formats and scopes
of data, and the model can simultaneously retrieve
information from a unified index of multiple knowl-
edge sources to improve the knowledge coverage.
3.3.2
Multi-virtual Hops Retrieval over
Heterogeneous Knowledge
Retrieved data are expected to bridge the gap be-
tween inputs and outputs of generation models. In
other words, retrievers are trained to provide in-
formation that is found with the inputs as queries
and related to the outputs. Ideally, they find the
55

output-related information just once. However,
that may actually take multiple hops of retrieval
across knowledge sources. Thus, the second solu-
tion is to iteratively retrieve knowledge from dif-
ferent sources. Regarding an entity, encyclope-
dic knowledge usually contains its attribute infor-
mation (e.g., age, duration), while commonsense
knowledge includes universally recognized facts in
human’s daily life. For example, the entity “soup”
in Wikipedia is described as “a primarily liquid
food, generally served warm or hot, made by com-
bining ingredients of meat or vegetables with stock,
milk, or water”; and in the OMCS corpus (Singh
et al., 2002), it contains a well-known fact “soup
and salad can be a healthy lunch”. Therefore, to
answer the question “What are the common ingredi-
ents in a healthy lunch?”, the encyclopedic corpus
and commonsense corpus can provide complemen-
tary knowledge that should be both leveraged.
Besides, it also might be necessary to first read
a subset of the corpus to extract the useful infor-
mation, and then further retrieve information from
other knowledge sources. For example, given in-
put q, it may take k steps, each step retrieving
data di from source si ∈S with an incremental
query qi = q ⊕d1 ⊕· · · ⊕di−1 (i ≤k) until
the final dk contains the information that can di-
rectly augment the generation of outputs o. Here
S includes various sources such as text corpora,
tables, and knowledge graphs. To achieve this,
however, the primary challenge for training such
a multi-hop retriever is that it cannot observe any
intermediate document for supervision but only the
final output. So, the multi-virtual hops retrieval
(MVHL) needs to perform multi-hop retrieval with-
out any intermediate signal. I will discuss two
promising designs as below. First, the MVHL ap-
proach will dynamically determine when the multi-
hops retrieval finishes. I denote the relevance score
between query qi and data di from source si by
r(di; qi, si). The search continues at the i-th step,
if r(di; qi, si) > r(di; qi−1, si−1 ∪si); because di
brings new relevant information that was not able
to be retrieved at the (i −1)-th step or any previ-
ous steps. Second, the MVHL can use sequential
models instead of heuristics to control the multi-
hops search. The search is expected to finish at
step i, when the relevance between the retrieved
data di and output o, which can be computed by
BERTScore (Zhang et al., 2020), achieves a local
maximum. In order to model the relationship be-
Query: What was the occupation of Lovely Rita in the Beatles song?
Wikiepdia: Lovely Rita is a song by the English rock band the Beatles
from their album Sgt. Pepper’s Lonely Hearts Club Band. It was writ-
en and sung by Paul McCartney and credited to Lennon-McCartney. 
It is about a female traffic warden and the narrator‘s affection for her.
Wikidata:
The Beatles
Paul McCartney
Sgt. Pepper ..
performer of 
Lovely Rita
Traffic warden
is a member of 
occupation 
song of 
written by
Figure 3: Reasoning over retrieved documents on struc-
tured knowledge provides explicit knowledge ground-
ing to help answer questions. For example, in WebQ,
46.9%/56.1% of the questions can be solved by one/two-
hop neighbors on the query-document subgraph.
tween this target relevance ro(di) and the retrieval
score r(di; qi, si), a straightforward solution is to
train a multi-hop retriever with only the output o us-
ing a fixed number of hops K (5 or 10) and use the
validation set to choose the best model. With that
model, I can observe the K-length series of r and
ro, and train an RNN model that predicts ro(dk)
based on the first k elements in the r series. The
search terminates when the predicted ro decreases.
3.3.3
Reasoning over Retrieved Documents
Based on Structured Knowledge
Traditional reader modules typically concatenate
the input query and retrieved documents sequen-
tially, and then feed them into a pre-trained genera-
tion model, such as T5. Although the token-level
attention can implicitly learning some relational pat-
terns between the input query and retrieved docu-
ments, it does not fully utilize the structured knowl-
edge that can provide more explicit grounding. As
shown in Figure 3, the relational information be-
tween important entities in the input query (i.e.,
Lovely Rita) and the retrieved documents (i.e., traf-
fic warden) may require reasoning over structured
knowledge that is not explicitly stated in the con-
text. So, the third solution is to perform multi-hop
reasoning on structured knowledge, e.g., Wikidata,
to learn relational patterns between the input query
and retrieved documents. In this way, the represen-
tation of retrieved documents is further enriched
by structured knowledge. To perform knowledge
reasoning over retrieved documents, the idea is
to first extract a query-document subgraph since
direct reasoning on the entire knowledge graph is
intractable. Entities on the subgraph can be mapped
by given hyperlinks in Wikipedia passages. Then,
a multi-relational graph encoder iteratively updates
56

the representation of each entity node by aggre-
gating information from its neighboring nodes and
edges. Then, the embedded node and relation repre-
sentations, as well as the query and document rep-
resentations, are then fused into the reader model.
Acknowledgements
Many thanks to my doctoral supervisor Dr. Meng
Jiang and my doctoral thesis committee members
Dr. Nitesh Chawala, Dr. David Chiang, Dr. Heng
Ji, Dr. Scott Yih for giving me constructive sugges-
tions. My research is mainly funded by National
Science Foundation (NSF) grants IIS-1849816,
CCF-1901059, IIS-2119531, and IIS-2142827.
References
Jonathan Berant, Andrew Chou, Roy Frostig, and Percy
Liang. 2013. Semantic parsing on freebase from
question-answer pairs. In Conference on Empirical
Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP).
Antoine Bosselut, Hannah Rashkin, Maarten Sap, Chai-
tanya Malaviya, Asli Celikyilmaz, and Yejin Choi.
2019. Comet: Commonsense transformers for auto-
matic knowledge graph construction. In Proceedings
of the 57th Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics (ACL).
Tom Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie
Subbiah, Jared D Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal, Arvind
Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda
Askell, et al. 2020. Language models are few-shot
learners. Advances in neural information processing
systems (Neurips).
Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and
Kristina Toutanova. 2019. Bert: Pre-training of deep
bidirectional transformers for language understand-
ing. In Conference of the North American Chapter of
the Association for Computational Linguistics: Hu-
man Language Technologies (NAACL).
Emily Dinan, Stephen Roller, Kurt Shuster, Angela
Fan, Michael Auli, and Jason Weston. 2019. Wizard
of wikipedia: Knowledge-powered conversational
agents. In International Conference on Learning
Representations (ICLR).
Suchin
Gururangan,
Ana
Marasovi´c,
Swabha
Swayamdipta, Kyle Lo, Iz Beltagy, Doug Downey,
and Noah A Smith. 2020. Don’t stop pretraining:
Adapt language models to domains and tasks.
In 58th Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics (ACL).
Gautier Izacard and Édouard Grave. 2021. Leveraging
passage retrieval with generative models for open
domain question answering. In Proceedings of the
16th Conference of the European Chapter of the As-
sociation for Computational Linguistics (EACL).
Peter Izsak, Moshe Berchansky, and Omer Levy. 2021.
How to train bert with an academic budget. In Pro-
ceedings of the 2021 Conference on Empirical Meth-
ods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP).
Mandar Joshi, Eunsol Choi, Daniel S Weld, and Luke
Zettlemoyer. 2017. Triviaqa: A large scale distantly
supervised challenge dataset for reading comprehen-
sion. In Proceedings of the 55th Annual Meeting of
the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL).
Vladimir Karpukhin, Barlas Oguz, Sewon Min, Patrick
Lewis, Ledell Wu, Sergey Edunov, Danqi Chen, and
Wen-tau Yih. 2020. Dense passage retrieval for open-
domain question answering. In Proceedings of the
2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing (EMNLP), pages 6769–6781.
Tom Kwiatkowski, Jennimaria Palomaki, Olivia Red-
field, Michael Collins, Ankur Parikh, Chris Alberti,
Danielle Epstein, Illia Polosukhin, Jacob Devlin, Ken-
ton Lee, et al. 2019. Natural questions: A benchmark
for question answering research. Transactions of the
Association for Computational Linguistics (TACL).
Angeliki Lazaridou, Elena Gribovskaya, Wojciech
Stokowiec, and Nikolai Grigorev. 2022. Internet-
augmented language models through few-shot
prompting for open-domain question answering.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.05115.
Mike Lewis, Yinhan Liu, Naman Goyal, Marjan
Ghazvininejad, Abdelrahman Mohamed, Omer Levy,
Veselin Stoyanov, and Luke Zettlemoyer. 2020a.
Bart: Denoising sequence-to-sequence pre-training
for natural language generation, translation, and com-
prehension. In Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics (ACL).
Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio
Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Naman Goyal, Hein-
rich Küttler, Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Tim Rock-
täschel, et al. 2020b. Retrieval-augmented generation
for knowledge-intensive nlp tasks. Advances in Neu-
ral Information Processing Systems (Neruips).
Yu
Li,
Baolin
Peng,
Yelong
Shen,
Yi
Mao,
Lars Liden, Zhou Yu, and Jianfeng Gao. 2021.
Knowledge-grounded dialogue generation with a
unified knowledge representation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2112.07924.
Yunlong Liang, Fandong Meng, Ying Zhang, Yufeng
Chen, Jinan Xu, and Jie Zhou. 2022. Emotional
conversation generation with heterogeneous graph
neural network. Artificial Intelligence.
Todor Mihaylov, Peter Clark, Tushar Khot, and Ashish
Sabharwal. 2018. Can a suit of armor conduct elec-
tricity? a new dataset for open book question answer-
ing. In Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing (EMNLP).
57

Linyong Nan, Dragomir Radev, Rui Zhang, Amrit
Rau, Abhinand Sivaprasad, Chiachun Hsieh, Xiangru
Tang, Aadit Vyas, Neha Verma, Pranav Krishna, et al.
2021. Dart: Open-domain structured data record to
text generation. In Conference of the North American
Chapter of the Association for Computational Lin-
guistics: Human Language Technologies (NAACL).
Barlas Oguz, Xilun Chen, Vladimir Karpukhin, Stan
Peshterliev, Dmytro Okhonko, Michael Schlichtkrull,
Sonal Gupta, Yashar Mehdad, and Scott Yih. 2022.
Unik-qa: Unified representations of structured and
unstructured knowledge for open-domain question
answering. Conference of the North American Chap-
ter of the Association for Computational Linguistics:
Human Language Technologies (NAACL-HLT).
Yasumasa Onoe, Michael JQ Zhang, Eunsol Choi, and
Greg Durrett. 2021. Creak: A dataset for common-
sense reasoning over entity knowledge. In Thirty-
fifth Conference on Neural Information Processing
Systems Datasets and Benchmarks Track (Neurips).
Fabio Petroni, Aleksandra Piktus, Angela Fan, Patrick
Lewis, Majid Yazdani, Nicola De Cao, James Thorne,
Yacine Jernite, Vladimir Karpukhin, Jean Maillard,
et al. 2021. Kilt: a benchmark for knowledge in-
tensive language tasks. In Proceedings of the 2021
Conference of the North American Chapter of the
Association for Computational Linguistics: Human
Language Technologies (NAACL).
Fabio Petroni, Tim Rocktäschel, Sebastian Riedel,
Patrick Lewis, Anton Bakhtin, Yuxiang Wu, and
Alexander Miller. 2019. Language models as knowl-
edge bases? In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference
on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Process-
ing and the 9th International Joint Conference on
Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP).
Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin,
Dmytro Okhonko, Samuel Broscheit, Gautier Izacard,
Patrick Lewis, Barlas O˘guz, Edouard Grave, Wen-tau
Yih, et al. 2021. The web is your oyster–knowledge-
intensive nlp against a very large web corpus. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2112.09924.
Xipeng Qiu, Tianxiang Sun, Yige Xu, Yunfan Shao,
Ning Dai, and Xuanjing Huang. 2020. Pre-trained
models for natural language processing: A survey. In
Science China Technological Sciences. Springer.
Colin Raffel, Noam Shazeer, Adam Roberts, Katherine
Lee, Sharan Narang, Michael Matena, Yanqi Zhou,
Wei Li, and Peter J Liu. 2019. Exploring the limits
of transfer learning with a unified text-to-text trans-
former. arXiv preprint arXiv:1910.10683.
Colin Raffel, Noam Shazeer, Adam Roberts, Katherine
Lee, Sharan Narang, Michael Matena, Yanqi Zhou,
Wei Li, and Peter J Liu. 2020. Exploring the limits
of transfer learning with a unified text-to-text trans-
former. In Journal of Machine Learning Research.
Adam Roberts, Colin Raffel, and Noam Shazeer. 2020.
How much knowledge can you pack into the param-
eters of a language model? In Proceedings of the
2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing (EMNLP), pages 5418–5426.
Maarten Sap, Ronan Le Bras, Emily Allaway, Chan-
dra Bhagavatula, Nicholas Lourie, Hannah Rashkin,
Brendan Roof, Noah A Smith, and Yejin Choi. 2019.
Atomic: An atlas of machine commonsense for if-
then reasoning. In Proceedings of the AAAI Confer-
ence on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI).
Kurt Shuster, Spencer Poff, Moya Chen, Douwe Kiela,
and Jason Weston. 2021. Retrieval augmentation
reduces hallucination in conversation. In Findings of
Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing.
Push Singh, Thomas Lin, Erik T Mueller, Grace Lim,
Travell Perkins, and Wan Li Zhu. 2002. Open mind
common sense: Knowledge acquisition from the gen-
eral public.
In International Conferences on the
Move to Meaningful Internet Systems. Springer.
Alon Talmor, Ori Yoran, Ronan Le Bras, Chandra Bha-
gavatula, Yoav Goldberg, Yejin Choi, and Jonathan
Berant. 2021. Commonsenseqa 2.0: Exposing the
limits of ai through gamification. In Thirty-fifth Con-
ference on Neural Information Processing Systems
Datasets and Benchmarks Track (Neurips).
Luyu Wang, Yujia Li, Ozlem Aslan, and Oriol Vinyals.
2021.
Wikigraphs: A wikipedia text-knowledge
graph paired dataset. In Proceedings of the Fifteenth
Workshop on Graph-Based Methods for Natural Lan-
guage Processing (TextGraphs-15).
Donghan Yu, Chenguang Zhu, Yuwei Fang, Wenhao
Yu, Shuohang Wang, Yichong Xu, Xiang Ren, Yim-
ing Yang, and Michael Zeng. 2022a. Kg-fid: Infus-
ing knowledge graph in fusion-in-decoder for open-
domain question answering. Proceedings of the An-
nual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics (ACL).
Wenhao Yu, Chenguang Zhu, Yuwei Fang, Donghan Yu,
Shuohang Wang, Yichong Xu, Michael Zeng, and
Meng Jiang. 2022b. Dict-bert: Enhancing language
model pre-training with dictionary. Proceedings of
the Annual Meeting of the Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics (ACL).
Wenhao Yu, Chenguang Zhu, Zaitang Li, Zhiting Hu,
Qingyun Wang, Heng Ji, and Meng Jiang. 2022c. A
survey of knowledge-enhanced text generation. In
ACM Computing Survey (CSUR).
Wenhao Yu, Chenguang Zhu, Lianhui Qin, Zhihan
Zhang, Tong Zhao, and Meng Jiang. 2022d. Diversi-
fying content generation for commonsense reasoning
with mixture of knowledge graph experts. In An-
nual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics (ACL).
Tianyi Zhang, Varsha Kishore, Felix Wu, Kilian Q Wein-
berger, and Yoav Artzi. 2020. Bertscore: Evaluating
text generation with bert. In International Confer-
ence on Learning Representations.
58